TWENTY FIRST
TO 2023 REGULAR MEETING OF THE
ANERA PLANNING COMMISSION.
IT IS REALLY NICE TO SEE ALL
THESE PEOPLE HERE.
>> THIS HAS BEEN A LONG TIME
SINCE WE'VE ACTUAL HUMAN BODIES
IN THIS FORUM IN THESE NUMBERS.
SO THANK YOU FOR SHOWING UP.
IT'S NICE FOR US TO ACTUALLY
HAVE REAL HUMAN INTERACTIONS
WITH FOLKS.
FOR DETAILED INFORMATION ON THE
SCREENING PROCEDURES, PLEASE
REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA PROVIDED MIX.
>> WILL YOU CALL THE ROLL
?
GOOD EVENING COMMISSIONER M.
PRESIDENT COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSMITH HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER HERE.
COMMISSIONER LEE COUNTY
COMMISSIONER CLARKE HERE.
COMMISSIONER PRESENT UH
CHURCHGATE BRANDELL HERE IS
YOUR APPEARANCE HERE BECAUSE
HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
WE ARE ON ITEM THREE WHICH IS
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé, SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER APRON'S AND
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA OTHER
THAN THAT IT IS VERY LONG.
SO TONIGHT WE NEED TO BE
MINDFUL ABOUT KEEPING OURSELVES
AT A REASONABLE PACE.
>> I THINK WE WILL LIKELY TAKE
A BREAK TOO.
I WOULD IMAGINE SO ANYWAY.
I JUST WANTED TO PUT THAT OUT
THERE FOR FOLKS ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PCI AND HE OPPOSED THE
MOTION CARRIES I DIDN'T SEE ANY
MINUTES FROM THE PREVIOUS
MEETING FOR ITEM NUMBER FOUR.
SO WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
ITEM NUMBER FIVE WHICH ARE
REPORTS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
AND THE REPORTS FROM YOU FOR
COUNCIL AT LAST NIGHT'S COUNCIL
MEETING FOR WEST WASHINGTON WAS
APPROVED ON FIRST READING SO WE
WILL HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING AND
A SECOND DISCUSSION OF IT AT
WHICH GREEN BUILDING ELEMENTS
ARE BEING ADDED TO THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WILL
BE DISCUSSED EXACTLY OR MR.
LEONARD, ANY REPORT FROM STAFF
JUST WANTS A STAFF ITEM THIS
KELETI REPORT WOULD BE THAT AT
YOUR NEXT REGULAR SESSION ON
APRIL 4TH YOU WILL RECEIVE AN
UPDATED OVERVIEW OF THE STATUS
OF THE DOWNTOWN PREMIUMS AND
HOPEFULLY MOVING FROM A
RESEARCH PHASE INTO SOME MORE
RECOMMENDATIONS.
THERE WILL BE SOME ITEMS FOR
THIS BODY TO WEIGH IN ON TO
GIVE FURTHER GUIDANCE TO THE
CONSULTANTS AND I KNOW THAT OUR
TEAM IS EXCITED FOR YOU TO SEE
THAT.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICES
OR LIAISON'S TO REPORT MR.
SAUVé OR SEEM TWO WEEKS AGO AND
WE DISCUSSED A PETITION TO
CONSIDER EVENT SPACE WITHIN THE
OFFICE DISTRICT AND HAD SOME
DISCUSSION ABOUT EVALUATING SO
SOME OTHER CONDITIONS ABOUT YOU
SO THAT'S KIND OF ON THE TABLE
RIGHT NOW.
STAFF IS WORKING ON MAKING SOME
PROGRESS ON EVALUATING USE CASE
AT THIS TIME.
SO I'M GOOD, THANKS.
ANYBODY ELSE OK?
ALL RIGHT WE WILL MOVE ON TO
ITEM NUMBER SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY HER
PERSON HAS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE PRESENT TO HEAR TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION AND THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISE THE HAND
FEATURE FOR YOU ONLY THROUGH
THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS TO RAISE THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THE WEB LINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET PLACE TO
THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD OR
PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
ANYBODY PRESENT HERE?
WE WILL START WITH PEOPLE IN
THE ROOM THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A COMMENT ON SOMETHING
THAT IS NOT ON THE AGENDA
TONIGHT.
>> HI THERE ADAM GOODMAN 400
VIRGINIA AVENUE.
WHAT I WANT TO TALK TO YOU
ABOUT TONIGHT IS A SENSE
OF URGENCY THAT THIS THEME
OF TALKING TO THE COMMISSION
BEFORE I THINK IT'S YOU KNOW
YOU ALL HAVE HEARD BEFORE I'M
SURE THAT WE HAVE A HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS AND A
CLIMATE CRISIS THAT WE ARE
FACING.
AND SO WHAT I MEAN WHEN I SAY A
SENSE OF URGENCY IS THAT WE
NEED TO BE WILLING TO WORK
QUICKLY BUT INCREMENTALLY WE
NEED TO BE WILLING TO ACCEPT
IMPERFECT BUT POSITIVE STEPS.
WE NEED TO NOT MAKE THE PERFECT
ENEMY OF THE GOOD IN PLANNING
COMMISSION.
YOU KNOW, TO YOUR CREDIT YOU'VE
ABSOLUTELY DONE SOME GOOD WORK
LATELY BUT THE TOTAL SOME OF IT
I DON'T THINK IS IS ACTUALLY
EQUAL TO THE CHALLENGES FACING
OUR CITY AND OUR REGION.
SO WHAT I WANT TO TALK ABOUT
SPECIFICALLY FOR THE MOMENT IS
THE DOWNTOWN PREMIUMS AND YOU
KNOW, I'M I'M HAPPY TO HEAR
THAT THERE ARE SOME NEXT STEPS
COMING
.
BUT LET'S LOOK BACK FOR A
MINUTE.
SO THE CHANGE TO THE DOWNTOWN
PREMIUMS WAS MADE IN 2019
EARLIER EARLY IN THE YEAR TO
ADD AFFORDABLE HOUSING
REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH RISES.
SO TWO YEARS LATER THERE WAS AN
ARTICLE IN THE OBSERVER CALLED
TITLED THE LAST HIGH PRICES
WHICH NOTED THAT THESE PREMIUMS
WERE NOT REALLY WORKING BUT NOT
A SINGLE DEVELOPMENT HAD COME
FORWARD THAT MADE USE OF THEM
AND THAT THE PREVIOUS PREMIUMS
WERE NO LONGER AVAILABLE FOR
USE BY DEVELOPERS.
SO NO NEW HIGH PRICES DOWNTOWN
WERE GETTING PROPOSED.
SO FAST FORWARD YET ANOTHER
YEAR.
FINALLY IN MARCH TWENTY TWO
THOUSAND TWENTY TWO THIS IS ON
THE AGENDA FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION NO, I HAD A
DISCUSSION AND AND PROCEEDED
WITH SOME NEXT STEPS AND
ENGAGED A CONSULTANT AND SO
FEBRUARY THIS YEAR YOU GOT A
MEMO BACK THAT CLEARLY STATES
FOR YOU THAT THE PREMIUMS ARE
NOT WORKING TOWARDS THE CITY
SCHOOLS AND SO WHAT'S IT GOING
TO TAKE?
IS IT GOING TO BE ANOTHER YEAR
BEFORE WE ACTUALLY GET TO A
SOLUTION?
I YOU KNOW, I THINK IT IT MAKES
SENSE FOR YOU ALL TO CONTINUE
WITH THIS IN A IN A DELIBERATE
MANNER AND TRY TO THINK THROUGH
WHAT THE RATE PREMIUMS ARE FOR
OUR CITY.
BUT IT SEEMS CLEAR TO ME THAT
THE PREMIUMS PRE 2019 WERE
WORKING BETTER THAN THE
PREMIUMS NOW.
SO WHY NOT JUST COME FORWARD
WITH A STRAIGHT ROBACK
ORDINANCE?
YOU COULD DO THIS, YOU KNOW,
IMMEDIATELY.
YEAH, IT WOULD TAKE A COUPLE
OF MINUTES TO GET THROUGH THE
PROCESS BUT THIS WOULDN'T TAKE
A YEAR TO FIGURE OUT AND END
AFTER WE'VE REVERTED THE
PREMIUMS TO THE ONES THAT
ACTUALLY WORKED.
THEY WERE NOT PERFECT THEN YOU
COULD CONTINUE THE PROCESS
OF THINKING ABOUT WHAT THE
RIGHT APPROACH ACTUALLY IS.
>> THAT'S ALL FOR THE MOMENT.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
?
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS SCOTT TRUDEAU FIVE
TO SIX NORTH MAIN STREET.
I WASN'T PLANNING TO SPEAK AT
THIS POINT BUT JUST TO
PIGGYBACK ON MR GOODMANS
COMMENTS I'LL MAKE THE
OBSERVATION THAT WE'VE SEEN A
NUMBER OF PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS NEAR
DOWNTOWN FOR HIGH DENSITY
PROJECTS AND WE'VE ALSO SEEN
THE UNIVERSITY BEGIN TO GOBBLE
UP A WHOLE BUNCH OF LAND
ADJACENT TO DOWNTOWN.
THE UNIVERSITY CLEARLY SEES A
NEED FOR SIGNIFICANTLY MORE
HOUSING AS DO DEVELOPERS FOR
THE STUDENT MARKET AND IF YOU
TALK TO ANY STUDENTS YOU KNOW
HOW DIFFICULT IT IS FOR THEM TO
SECURE ANY KIND OF HOUSING
OF ANY QUALITY ANYWHERE NEAR
CAMPUS DOWNTOWN IS A GREAT
PLACE TO PUT THAT HOUSING AND
WE'RE NOT GETTING IT.
SO I THINK THE EVIDENCE IS
PRETTY CLEAR THAT THE PROBLEM
IS URGENT.
IT'S SIGNIFICANT THE DEMAND IS
STILL THERE AND I WILL ALSO
URGE YOU TO PLEASE CONSIDER THE
PROBLEM AN URGENT ONE AND ACT
ACCORDINGLY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
?
OH MY NAME IS GABRIELLA OF A
TWENTY EIGHT YEAR OLD COURT.
I AGREE WITH THE PREVIOUS TWO
SPEAKERS AND THE URGENT FOR NEW
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR BUT I'D
LIKE TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
SOMETHING ELSE WHAT HAPPENED TO
THE AFGHAN ORDINANCE?
YOU HAVE DISCUSSED IT ON
DECEMBER 6TH WITH PEER REVIEW
AND YOUR FEBRUARY 14TH WORKING
SESSION WITH THE MARKS MARCH
26TH, THE GROWTH DATES AND TWO
OTHER WORKING SESSIONS HAVE
COME AND GONE.
NOTHING ELSE THE ROAD TOWNHOMES
REMIND US GAS BURNING
DEVELOPMENTS AREN'T EXACTLY
PAUSING WHILE WE SIT ON THIS.
MEANWHILE, THE FOLLOWING GROUPS
HAVE COME OUT AGAINST THE GAS
BAN ENERGY THE HOME BUILDERS
ASSOCIATION OF MICHIGAN OR BAN
THE NATIONAL FEDERATION
OF INDEPENDENT BUSINESS TWO
UTILITY WORKER UNIONS AND NINE
LOCAL BUILDERS WHOSE LETTER IS
IN YOUR PACKET.
THEY ALL WANT TO KEEP DOING
THINGS THE SAME WAY THEY'VE
ALWAYS DONE BUT THAT IS INSANE.
YOU MAY HAVE READ OR HEARD
ABOUT THE IPCC REPORT THAT CAME
OUT YESTERDAY IF YOU HAVE ANY
TIME TO READ IT.
I BROUGHT A VISUAL AID I DON'T
ONLY I SHOULD GET TO SHOW
PICTURES SO WE HAVE A REMAINING
CARBON BUDGET OF THREE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY GIGATONS OF CO2 TO
HAVE A 50 PERCENT CHANCE
OF STOPPING GLOBAL HEATING AT
ONE POINT FIVE DEGREES CELSIUS
OR AT ONE POINT ONE TO ONE
POINT THREE DEGREES.
NOW ONE POINT FIVE DEGREES WILL
MEAN MILLIONS OF DEATHS AND WHY
THE ECOSYSTEM COLLAPSE GOOD BYE
CORAL REEFS BUT IT WILL AVOID
THE WORST EFFECTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE GIVEN THAT THE WORLD
EMITTED A THIRTY GIGATONS CO2
LAST YEAR A RECORD WE ONLY HAD
TEN YEARS LEFT EVEN IF
EMISSIONS LEVEL OFF AND THEY'RE
NOT YOU'RE STILL RISING.
THIS PRICE RATIOS ARE REMAINING
INVERTED IN THE CONTEXT
OF HISTORICAL EMISSIONS FROM
THE REPORT QUOTE WITHOUT RAPID,
DEEP AND SUSTAINED MITIGATION
AND ACCELERATING ADAPTATION
ACTIONS, LOSSES AND DAMAGES
WILL CONTINUE TO INCREASE
INCLUDING PROJECTED ADVERSE
IMPACTS IN AFRICA.
ALDISS THAT'S LESS DEVELOPED
COUNTRIES SAID THAT SMALL
ISLAND DEVELOPING STATE CENTRAL
AND SOUTH AMERICA, ASIA AND THE
ARCTIC AND WILL
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECT THE
MOST VULNERABLE POPULATIONS END
QUOTE.
THE GREAT FAMINE IN THE HORN
OF AFRICA AND THE FLOODING IN
PAKISTAN ARE NOTHING COMPARED
TO WHAT'S COMING.
THIS GRAPH TAKEN FROM THE
GLOBAL CARBON PROJECT IMPROVING
GLOBAL CARBON BUDGET PROJECT SO
THE TASK WE FACE EMISSIONS HAVE
RISEN STEEPLY SINCE 2000.
THEY ROSE ONE PERCENT LAST YEAR
ONE POINT THREE PERCENT IN ARE
NOW THE GRAPH TELLS US WE MUST
GET TO CRUZEIRO MATERIAL BY
2040 THAT MEANS RICH COUNTRIES
MUST GROW BY TWENTY THIRTY FIVE
APPARATUS TO GET POOR COUNTRIES
MORE TIME TO CATCH UP IN
DEVELOPMENT.
BUT AGAIN THIS IS JUST FOR A 50
PERCENT CHANCE OF ONE POINT
FIVE DEGREES FOR A HIGHER
CHANCE IT'S NET ZERO BY 2030.
THE ZERO TARGET IS GOING TO GET
THERE IF WE LISTEN TO THE DTD
AND THE BANKS OF THE WORLD, IF
WE DO PROVIDE WILL GO LIKE THIS
OR THIS NOT THIS.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS A PLANNING COMMISSION?
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY IN LINE
VIRTUALLY THERE ARE CURRENTLY
TWO HANDS RAISE THE FIRST HAND
RAISE IS SHANE THOMAS SALVATORE
GUENTHER.
SHANE, YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
SPEAK.
>> THANK YOU.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO SPEAK
ABOUT THE PVD AND SORRY I READ
THIS RENAMING ACROSS MY SQUAD
AND I JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT I
REPRESENT A CERTAIN
ORGANIZATION ON CAMPUS AND WE
ARE INCREDIBLY PRO DIPTI TO
INCREASE THE NUMBER
OF APARTMENTS THAT WE KNOW.
IN OTHER WORDS IN HOUSING
CRISIS COUNTRIES AND HOUSING
PRICES WE NEED AS MANY FARMERS
AS POSSIBLE TO BE A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THE SEVEN TWENTY
ONE FOR US THIS IS A TIME TO
TRAVEL.
>> I'M I'M SO SORRY CHURCH I
SEE YOU TALKING ABOUT CHURCH OR
FOREST.
OH, I'D BE SAYING CUSTOMER IS
QUITE SO I THINK THAT HE'S MY
APOLOGIES SORRY YOU CAN
CONTINUE ON.
>> OH MY ARE RIGHT NEXT THEY
ARE VERY CLOSE TO EACH OTHER.
I LOVE IT.
YES I GUESS I CAN JUST TALK
ABOUT BOTH THAT.
>> WELL YEAH SUPPOSE SO I JUST
WE VERY MUCH FOR THE ADDITIONAL
PART OF BUILDINGS IS FOR US
WHEN I WAS IN CRISIS WE'RE IN A
CLIMATE CRISIS AND TRANSITION
TO BOTH IS DENSE HOUSING WHICH
THIS WOULD VERY MUCH BE.
AND SO I JUST WOULD LIKE TO SAY
THAT VERY MUCH URGE YOU GUYS TO
APPROVE THIS.
YEAH, THAT'S THANK YOU.
>> THERE'S STILL A SECOND HAND
RAISED.
YEAH.
EXTEMPORE EXCUSE ME OUR NEXT
HAND RAISED IS ALEX LOWE.
ALEX LOWE, YOU HAVE PERMISSION
TO SPEAK
.
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE
CALLING IN FROM 3:00 TO ECHO
THE STATEMENTS OF SEVERAL
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS.
FIRST, WE DESPERATELY NEED MORE
MORE HOUSING IN AND NEAR
DOWNTOWN.
>> WE DESPERATELY NEED TO TRY
TO REDUCE CO2 EMISSIONS.
FORTUNATELY HE'S GOT THESE
GOALS WILL WORK IN TEN MORE
DOWNTOWN HOUSING.
THAT WILL MEAN SHORTER COMMUTES
FOR PEOPLE LESS NEEDS TO DRIVE
LONG DISTANCES ETC.
UNFORTUNATELY AND FAIRLY
COUNTER-INTUITIVE BANNING NEW
NATURAL GAS HOOKUPS WITHIN THE
CITY LIMITS MAY HAVE THE
OPPOSITE OF THE INTENDED
EFFECT.
>> I WOULD ABSOLUTELY LOVE TO
TO NEW NATURAL GAS HOOKUPS AND
INDEED AND INDEED ELIMINATE
NATURAL GAS ALTOGETHER AND WE
NEED TO DO THAT AT THE STATE
LEVEL AT WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
IF WE DO IT AT THE CITY LEVEL
IS THAT IT WILL BE MORE
EXPENSIVE TO BUILD IN THE CITY
WHICH AS MR GOODMAN IS
DISCUSSION ARE CRIMINALS
ALREADY POINTED OUT IT IS
CAUSING A REDUCTION IN NEW
CONSTRUCTION AND SO PEOPLE THAT
PEOPLE WILL END UP BUILDING NEW
HOUSING IN THE TOWNSHIPS WHERE
THEY HAVE THE NATURAL GAS THAT
AND WHERE PEOPLE ARE FORCED TO
DRIVE INTO THE CITY TO GET BACK
TO WORK.
>> I WOULD LOVE TO SEE NATURAL
GAS BANNED ALTOGETHER BUT WE
HAVE TO DO THAT AT THE FEDERAL
LEVEL AND AT THE STATE LEVEL
.
>> DEALING WITH IT WITHIN THE
CITY WILL HARM OUR CLIMATE, OUR
CLIMATE POLICY.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY.
>> AND I'M SURE THERE ARE NO
OTHER HANDS AT THIS TIME.
OK, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO OUR REGULAR
BUSINESS SECTION AND BEGIN WITH
EIGHT A WHICH IS THE FLAT ROAD
TOWNHOMES SITE PLAN FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL,
WETLAND USE PERMIT AND
LANDSCAPING MODIFICATION.
THIS IS FOR THREE SIX EIGHT OH
THREE SIX NINE SIX THREE SEVEN
FOUR SIX AND THREE SEVEN EIGHT
EIGHT PLAT ROAD TRIGGER RENTAL
WHILE THE PETITIONERS COMING UP
TO START THEIR PRESENTATION WE
DO HAVE ITEM SEVEN WHICH IS
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT
MEETING.
OH I'M SORRY I SKIPPED RIGHT
OVER THAT.
>> THANK YOU FOR CORRECTING ME
AT THE NEXT REGULAR SESSION
OF THIS BODY ON APRIL 4TH AT
7:00 P.M. THERE WILL BE A
PROPOSED PROJECT AT TWENTY NINE
TWENTY NINE PLYMOUTH ROAD
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CREDIT
UNION IS PRESENTING A FLIGHT
PLAN AND SPECIAL EXCEPTION FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
IT IS A PROPOSAL TO BUILD A
FOUR THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND
FORTY SQUARE FOOT BUILDING WITH
THREE DRIVE THRU LANES TWENTY
TWO PARKING SPACES ON A ONE
ACRE SITE.
IT IS CURRENTLY ZONED OFFICE.
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
REQUESTED FOR THE THREE DRIVE
THROUGH TELLER LANES.
>> THANKS.
ALL RIGHT.
NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO ADA ONTO
THE ROAD TOWNHOMES.
SO FIRST WE WILL HAVE A
PETITIONER PRESENTATION FOR TEN
MINUTES ON THE PROJECT.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ANDY MILLIA.
I'M A DEVELOPMENT CONSULTANT
HERE ON BEHALF OF TROWBRIDGE
HOLDINGS.
THE PETITIONER ALSO WITH ME
TONIGHT IS MR. ANTHONY RANDAZZO
WHO IS THE PRINCIPAL
OF TROWBRIDGE HOLDINGS, JOHN
CURRY WHO'S OUR CIVIL ENGINEER
AND BELGYA WHO'S OUR ARCHITECT.
SO WE'RE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
I'VE GOT A VERY QUICK FIVE
MINUTE POWERPOINT WHICH I THINK
WILL ANSWER SOME OF YOUR
QUESTIONS.
WE'VE ENJOYED WORKING WITH YOUR
STAFF OVER THE LAST SEVERAL
YEARS ON THIS PROJECT HAVE MADE
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS PROGRESS
AND ARE PLEASED THAT THEY'RE
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL TONIGHT
WHAT WE'RE DESIGNING IS SEVENTY
EIGHT SEVENTY EIGHT TOWNHOME
UNIT DEVELOPMENT ON PLANT ROAD
QUICKLY THE PROFILE DEVELOPER
MR. RANDAZZO HAS OVER FORTY
YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS HIGH QUALITY SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES, APARTMENTS,
SHOPPING CENTERS AS WELL AS
OFFICE AND INDUSTRIAL BUILDING
AND THE PHOTOS ON THE RIGHT ARE
THREE PHOTOS OF RECENT AND
CURRENT PROJECTS THE HAZELTON
AND ROYAL OAK TOWNHOMES
OF CASSWELL AND TROY AND THE
DAKOTA IN BIRMINGHAM ALL VERY
HIGH QUALITY AND COMMUNITIES
THAT ARE SIMILAR TO ANN ARBOR
THAT HAVE BOTH AN URBAN
DOWNTOWN AND A SUBURBAN
OUTSKIRTS SO VERY FAMILIAR WITH
DEVELOPING IN THESE TYPES
OF COMMUNITIES.
AND MR. RANDAZZA WAS ALSO BUILT
SEVERAL PROJECTS IN ANN ARBOR
AS WELL IN THE LAST FEW YEARS
THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM IS MR. AND
AS THOSE COMPANY BUILD JARRETT
JARRETT ARCHITECTS CIVIL
ENGINEERS HERE AS WELL TONIGHT
JOHN CURRY FROM PAEA AND
LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT VERD VERDIE
ARCHITECTURE SUMMARY OF EVENTS.
AS I'VE INDICATED THIS PROJECT
STARTED ACTUALLY ALMOST CLOSE
TO FOUR YEARS AGO IN TWENTY
NINETEEN WE WORK THROUGH THE
WETLAND ISSUES ON THE SITE
CONDUCTED A MARKET STUDY,
LOOKED AT DIFFERENT CONCEPTS
AGAIN WORKING IN CONJUNCTION
WITH YOUR FINE STAFF.
WE ORIGINALLY HAD A PROJECT
THAT WAS FORTY THREE UNITS THAT
WAS SUBMITTED BY I RECOMMENDED
AND THEN WE'VE GONE BACK AND
ADDED SOME DENSITY TO IT STILL
FITTING WITHIN THE SAME
FOOTPRINT AS THE ORIGINAL.
I JUST MADE THE UNITS A LITTLE
BIT SMALLER BUT ALL FITTING IN
THE SAME FOOTPRINT.
SO WHAT'S BEFORE YOU TONIGHT IS
THE SITE PLAN APPROVAL WETLAND
AND LANDSCAPE PLAN FOR SEVEN
EIGHT UNIT TOWN HOME
DEVELOPMENT.
>> THE PROJECT IS WHERE THE RED
ARROW IS IS ON THE WEST SIDE
OF THAT ROAD NORTH OF 894
FREEWAY THAT A LITTLE BIT OF A
AREA OF TOWN AND WE THINK THAT
THIS WILL HELP REVITALIZE THE
AREA AS WELL WITH BUILDING A
QUALITY TOWNHOME PROJECT IN
THIS AREA.
HERE IS AGAIN THE SITE WEST
SIDE OF PLATTE ROAD HEAVILY
TREED ON THE SOUTH SIDE WILL BE
PRESERVING THOSE TREES ON THE
SOUTH SIDE WE ARE REMOVING A
FEW LANDMARK TREES AND THEN
REPLACING THOSE AND WE'RE ALSO
CONTRIBUTING JUST UNDER FIFTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS INTO THE
PRESERVATION AREA.
SO YOU'LL SEE IN THE
LANDSCAPING PLAN IT'LL BE
ENHANCED AND WE'RE TAKING NICE
USE OF THE SITE AND
INCORPORATING PROTECTING THE
WETLAND AREAS ON THE SITE AS
WELL.
>> HERE IS THE PLAN OVERLAID ON
THE AERIAL AGAIN YOU CAN SEE
THE PROTECTION ON THE SOUTH
SIDE, THE PROTECTION OF THE
WETLAND AND ON THE PROPERTY A
NICE CONTINUATION OF BUFFER
AROUND THE WEST END OF THE
PROPERTY AND LANDSCAPE AREA ON
THE EAST SIDE AS WELL.
LANDSCAPE PLAN THESE ARE
ADDITIONAL ENHANCEMENTS TO THE
SITE IN ADDITION TO A LOT
OF THE VEGETATION THAT WILL
REMAIN ON SITE ARCHITECTURE IS
MODERN HIGH QUALITY DESIGN.
THESE ARE WHAT'S CALLED STACK
TOWNHOMES WHICH ARE THREE
STORIES WITH PARKING ON THE
GRADE LEVEL AND THEN TWO
STORIES OF LIVING SPACE ABOVE.
>> THEY ARE WHAT'S CONSIDERED
TO CAR TANDEM GARAGE REAR AND
SIDE ELEVATIONS AGAIN THE USE
OF HIGH QUALITY MATERIALS AND
ESTHETICALLY A VERY NICE
LOOKING PRODUCT THAT WILL FIT
IN WELL IN HARMONY WITH THE
SITE.
>> WE HAVE TWO CONCEPTS ONE'S A
THIRTY NINE FOOT CONCEPT AND
ONE'S A FORTY TWO FOOT CONCEPT
MULTIPLE THREE BEDROOM TWO BATH
UNITS YOU SEE THE FIRST FLOOR
AGAIN ON THE RIGHT IS IS
PARKING IN THE GARAGE SECOND
FLOOR AND THIRD FLOOR WOULD BE
LIVING SPACES WITH BEDROOMS ON
THE THIRD FLOOR AND A
ACCOMMODATION OF BEDROOMS AND
LIVING AREA ON THE SECOND FLOOR
.
FORTY TWO FOOT CONCEPT IS JUST
SLIGHTLY LARGER AND SIMILAR
CONFIGURATION UNIT SIZES ARE
TWELVE HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET THIRTEEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SQUARE FEET.
SO WE'RE WE'RE BRINGING A
PRODUCT INTO THE MARKET.
WE THINK THAT IS IS BADLY
NEEDED IN THIS MARKET.
IT'S NOT A LUXURY HIGH RISE
APARTMENT.
IT'S NOT A 700 FOOT APARTMENT.
IT'S A IT'S A VERY MARKETABLE
UNIT THAT WILL ATTRACT FAMILIES
THAT IT COULD ATTRACT GRADUATE
STUDENTS BUT IT PROVIDES A
HOUSING NEED CURRENTLY NEEDED
IN THIS MARKET IN THIS LOCATION
SUSTAINABILITY IS VERY
IMPORTANT TO US.
WE REVIEWED THE LETTER FROM THE
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE AND THEY
PROVIDED SEVERAL
RECOMMENDATIONS.
WE'RE PLEASED TO INCORPORATE
MANY OF THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS
INTO THIS PLAN SPECIFICALLY ALL
THE GARAGES WOULD OF THE KIND
WITH OUTLETS FOR FUTURE EV
CHARGING STATIONS IN EACH UNIT
HIGH EFFICIENCY APPLIANCE IS IN
THE UNITS LED LIGHTING AND ALL
PUBLIC LIGHTING AREAS.
WE WOULD ENCOURAGE USE
OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
ALTHOUGH WE'RE PROVIDING
GARAGES AND CARS AND AND FEEL
THAT MANY PEOPLE WILL STILL
NEED THAT.
WE'RE ENCOURAGING THE BUS ROUTE
WOULD OFFER DISCOUNTED PASSES
TO THOSE PEOPLE THAT CHOOSE NOT
TO HAVE A CAR ON SITE ALTHOUGH
THIS MIGHT NOT BE AS POPULAR IN
2023 IT'LL BECOME INCREASINGLY
POPULAR AND WE'RE HAPPY TO
WRITE THAT INTO A LOT OF THE
LEASE OFFERINGS DESIGNATED AREA
FOR COMPOST WILL BE DESIGNATED
ON SITE AND IT WILL ALSO BE
MINIMIZED GAS IS THE BEST THAT
WE CAN.
IT'S PRACTICAL IN TODAY'S
ENVIRONMENT SO WE WOULD MANDATE
ELECTRIC COOK TOPS ELECTRIC
STOVES AND ELECTRIC DRYERS
WOULD BE MANDATED FOR ALL THE
UNITS WERE AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS BOTH OF MYSELF OR MR
RANDAZZO ARCHITECT OR THE
ENGINEER.
THANK YOU STAFF PRESENTATION
MR. CHENG.
>> BUT I THINK THE DEVELOPMENT
AN EXCELLENT JOB OF MAKING
PRESENTATION.
DO YOU NOT HEAR ME?
>> I WOULD JUST ADD JUST A
COUPLE OF ITEMS THAT JUST TO
TOUCH ON THAT THERE IS A
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION AS PART
OF THIS APPLICATION THEY ARE
PLANTING THE TREES THAT ARE
REQUIRED.
THEY JUST CAN'T FIT THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY SO THEY'RE GOING
TO PLANT THEM BEHIND THE
SIDEWALKS.
THEY'RE ALSO ASKING FOR A
WETLAND USE PERMIT THAT'S
REALLY JUST POURING UNDER ONE
OF THE WETLANDS TO MAKE
CONNECTION TO THE SANITARY
SEWER.
IN BOTH CASES THE STAFF
REVIEWER HAS SUPPORTED THESE
MODIFICATIONS TO THE SITE PLAN.
>> I'M HERE FOR ANY QUESTIONS
YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU.
OK, WE WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS PROJECT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES.
WE'LL FIRST CALL IN PEOPLE WHO
ARE HERE AND THEN PEOPLE WHO
ARE REMOTE FOR PHONE ACCESS.
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
AND YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA FOR EITHER
METHOD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PROJECT?
YOU CAN COME UP TO THE TOP, YOU
GET THREE MINUTES AND JUST
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PHIL HUNE.
I LIVE AT THREE ONE FIVE FOUR
WILLIAMSBURG WHICH IS ACROSS
FROM A PROPOSED BUILDING
.
I WAS ACTUALLY HERE AUGUST 16TH
LAST YEAR FOR THIS AND AT THAT
TIME I I MENTIONED A COUPLE
OF THINGS AT THAT TIME AND ONE
OF THE MAJOR ISSUES THAT WE SEE
WITHIN OUR TOWN HOMES THAT WE
HAVE THERE ARE 426 TOWNHOMES
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
BEYOND THAT THERE IS TWO
THERE'S A MIDDLE SCHOOL AND
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
SO THERE'S A MAJOR TRAFFIC
ISSUE THAT I PERCEIVE
ESPECIALLY WHEN I'M TRYING TO
LEAVE THE AH WILLIAMSBURG
ENTRANCE THAT I FEEL THAT YOU
NEED TO ADDRESS.
I'M CURRENTLY AS I SAID,
THERE'S A FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY
SEVEN TOWNHOMES AT COLLIER
SQUARE IS CURRENTLY THERE'S
ACTUALLY TWO SUBDIVISIONS THAT
HAVE JUST BEEN BUILT ALONG
PLATTE ROAD NEAR MICHIGAN
AVENUE AND THERE ARE FOUR MORE
SUBDIVISIONS GOING DOWN THAT
ROAD THAT ARE THAT ARE IN
DESIGN AT THIS POINT.
SO TRAFFIC COMING IN AND OUT
OF PLATTE ROAD IS GOING TO BE
HORRENDOUS AS FAR AS I'M
CONCERNED.
IT'S GOING TO BE INCREASING
THROUGHOUT THE YEARS AS THESE
DEVELOPMENTS HAPPEN AND THIS
ALSO AFFECTS THE PEOPLE WHO ARE
GOING TO BE LIVING IN THESE
TOWNHOUSES.
THEY HAVE TO GET OUT AND I
BELIEVE THAT THE WAY IT'S BEEN
ARCHITECTED IS THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO BE BASICALLY MIRRORING
OUR EXIT FROM COLONIAL SQUARES
AND IT WILL BE, YOU KNOW,
ACROSS THE STREET FROM THAT.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOUR
INTENTIONS ARE IN TERMS
OF TRAFFIC IF YOU'RE GOING TO
BE PUTTING A LIGHT IN OR
WHATEVER IS GOING TO HAPPEN.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT
WHAT YOUR YOUR INTENTIONS ARE
FOR DEALING WITH TRAFFIC ALSO
AT THE TIME I MENTIONED THAT
THERE ARE NINETY ACRES OF WOODS
THAT ARE SCARLETT MITCHELL
WOODS AND THERE'S CURRENT
TRAFFIC OF ANIMALS ACTUALLY
GOING FROM THE WOODED AREA FROM
SCARLETT MITCHELL WOODS ALL THE
WAY OVER TO MARY BETH DOYLE
PARK.
AND SO THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME
ISSUES ALONG THE ANIMALS TOO
WHICH I ALSO MENTIONED THAT
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PROJECT
?
THANK YOU TURKEY RANDALL, I
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE THINKING.
OF COURSE, BUT LAST YEAR I
SUGGESTED THAT PLANNING STAFF
CALCULATE THE GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSION IMPACT OF EACH NEW
DEVELOPMENT AS PART OF THE
REVIEW PROCESS.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN BUT THAT'S
OK.
I TOOK IT ON WITH A PERSONAL
RESPONSIBILITY FOR DEVELOPERS
HAVE HAVE MODEL AND DISCLOSED
BUILDINGS ENERGY USE INTENSITY
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED EITHER BUT
IT'S STILL POSSIBLE TO MAKE A
REASONABLE EMISSIONS ESTIMATE
SO POPULAR.
THIS IS MORNING WE'RE ALERT
HERE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE EXTREMELY
BORING AS YOU JUST HEARD THERE
ARE TWO FOUR PLANS ONE TWELVE
FIFTY SQUARE FEET ONE THIRTEEN
FIFTY LET'S ASSUME HALF OF EACH
ONE THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET CONSUMERS ENERGY
SECTOR FIFTY TWO POINT NINE
KILOBITS PER SQUARE FOOT ANNUAL
ENERGY USE AND GAS CONSUMPTION
FOR NEW MID-MICHIGAN LOW RISE
MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS
MULTIPLIED BY THIS PROJECT
TOTAL BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGE
YOU GET FIVE POINT FOUR MILLION
KB TV FOR FIFTY EIGHT THOUSAND
FIRMS MULTIPLY THAT BY A
GREENHOUSE CONVERT GREENHOUSE
GAS CONVERSION FACTOR
OF THIRTEEN KILOGRAM FIRM TAKES
INTO ACCOUNT CAPTURING CO2
EMISSIONS THAT GIVES SEVEN
HUNDRED AND TWO METRIC TONS
OF CO2 TO GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS A YEAR JUST FROM GET
COMBUSTION IN SEVENTY EIGHT
TOWNHOMES AND THIS WILL BE
OFFSET BECAUSE SOME CURRENT
COMMUTERS WILL MOVE HERE.
SOME REPORTS OF THE ABORIGINAL
COMMUNITIES NINETEEN POINT
THREE MILES AHEAD OF ONE PERSON
TODAY COMMUTING AN AVERAGE
AROUND TRIP DISTANCE OF THIRTY
EIGHT POINT SIX MILES TO AND
FROM ANN ARBOR FOR HALF OF THE
SEVENTY EIGHT UNITS THAT'S
FIFTEEN HUNDRED AND FIVE MILES
A DAY OR THIRTY ONE THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED MILES A YEAR
EXCLUDING WEEKENDS AT THIRTY
MILES PER GALLON.
IT'S JUST OVER THIRTEEN
THOUSAND GALLONS OF GASOLINE.
THEY EMIT ELEVEN POINT THREE
KILOGRAMS CO2 PER GALLON HIGHER
THAN THE EPA ESTIMATED AT EIGHT
POINT NINE KILOGRAMS TAKING
INTO ACCOUNT UPSTREAM EMISSIONS
THAT COULD BE ONE HUNDRED FORTY
SEVEN METRIC TON CO2 EMISSIONS
THAT ARE SAVING BY CONVERTING
COMMUTERS TO RESIDENTS.
THAT'S ONE FIFTH THE EMISSIONS
FROM BURNING GAS IN THESE
FURNACES TOTAL EMISSIONS FROM
ROAD TOWNHOMES JUST FROM THESE
GAS FURNACES FIVE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FIVE METRIC TONS OF CO2
CARBON EMISSIONS A YEAR.
THAT OF COURSE INCLUDE
EMISSIONS EMBEDDED IN BUILDING
MATERIALS OR INDIRECT EMISSIONS
FROM DIRTY POWER GENERATION
FROM DTT JUST WE ARE PUTTING
ALMOST 600 METRIC EXTRA
EMISSIONS INTO THE ATMOSPHERE
EACH YEAR FOR DECADES TO COME.
SO I HAVE THIRTY SECONDS SAVED
.
I USE IT OF COURSE MORE CALLED
IN AND SAID WE CAN'T HAVE A
GASPIN BECAUSE DEVELOPERS WILL
FLEE ANN ARBOR EN MASSE.
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THIS HAS
HAPPENED IN ANY OF THE 50
COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE ADOPTED
JASPAN ORDINANCES.
ANN ARBOR IS A VERY DESIRABLE
PLACE TO LIVE DEVELOPERS KNOW
THIS.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE GOING TO
SEE A SURGE OF TOWNSHIP
PROJECTS AND AS FAR AS COST
GOES BASICALLY FOR NEW
CONSTRUCTION THERE ARE ALREADY
OR CLOSE THANK THANK YOU TO
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK ON THE PLANT ROAD
PROJECT CLOSE GAUCHITO AGAIN
FIVE TO SIX NORTH MAIN STREET.
SO TO ALSO FOLLOW ON THE
PREVIOUS COMMENTER WHO BROUGHT
A LOT OF MATH TO THE TABLE, ONE
OF THE THINGS I THINK TO KEEP
IN MIND IS YES, THE EMISSIONS
FROM A COMMUTER IN THE TOWNSHIP
IS NOT AS MUCH AS THE EMISSIONS
FROM A GAS HEATED HOME.
HOWEVER, THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE
GOING TO MOVE TO THE TOWNSHIPS
AND OUTSIDE OF THE CITY LIMITS
WILL ALSO LIVE IN GAS HEATED
HOMES BECAUSE OUR NEIGHBORS
HAVE NOT AND ARE NOT
CONSIDERING AN ELECTRIFICATION
ORDINANCE AND THE ECONOMICS
OF THE ELECTRIC PUMPS OTHER
THINGS ARE TRICKY.
I THINK IF WE WERE TALKING
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THE
EVIDENCE IS PRETTY CLEAR THAT
OVER THE LIFETIME OF THE
BUILDING THE ECONOMICS ARE
PRETTY GOOD AND LIKE WE WOULD
PROBABLY SEE JUST AS MANY
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES IF WE
REQUIRED ELECTRIFICATION OR NOT
RIGHT NOW I THINK WHEN WE TALK
A HIGHER DENSITY CONSTRUCTION
AND I THINK IF ANY OF YOU
TALKED TO PEOPLE TRYING TO
BUILD LARGER, MORE SUBSTANTIAL
PROJECTS THAT ARE ELECTRIFIED
IN THE CITY, THE ECONOMICS ARE
VERY DIFFERENT AND SO THERE'S A
VERY SIGNIFICANT RISK
ESPECIALLY OVER THE NEXT DECADE
OR SO THAT IF WE MANDATE FOR
ELECTRIFICATION FOR ANY NEW
CONSTRUCTION WE WILL BE DRIVING
PEOPLE TO LIVE IN THE TOWNSHIPS
BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING TO JUST
MAKE PEOPLE DECIDE NOT TO EXIST
.
THEY'RE GOING TO WANT TO LIVE
SOMEWHERE.
AND IF WE'RE NOT BUILDING HOMES
WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS THAT
ALLOW FOR SHORTER COMMUTES,
THEY'RE GOING TO LIVE SOMEWHERE
AND IF THEY'RE GOING TO LIVE
SOMEWHERE, IT'S GOING TO BE
HEATED.
A GAS HEATED HOME OR A SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSE WHICH WE DON'T
HAVE A LOT OF ROOM TO BUILD IN
THE CITY OR EVEN NEAR THE CITY
AT THIS POINT.
SO I ENCOURAGE YOU TO REALLY
WEIGH THAT SERIOUSLY BECAUSE WE
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE EFFECTS
OF OUR DECISIONS WHETHER THE
EFFECTS HAPPEN OUTSIDE OF THE
CITY LIMITS.
THANK THANK YOU OR ANYBODY ELSE
PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
ON THIS PROJECT.
ANYBODY IN LINE VIRTUALLY
AT
THIS TIME WE HAVE ONE PERSON
WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED, ALEX
LOWE.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> I WAS WITH ALEX LOWE AGAIN
CALLING NUMBER THREE JUST A
STONE'S THROW AWAY FROM THE
PETROCHEM.
ACTUALLY I'M GLAD TO SEE THE
POSITIVE IMPROVEMENTS THAT HAVE
BEEN MADE ON THIS PLANS SINCE
THE PREVIOUS CAMPAIGN
AUTOMATION AND ESPECIALLY
HAPPENED TO SEE THE INCREASE IN
YOUR ACCOUNT ALTHOUGH I WISH
THEY COULD HAVE BEEN MORE I
WOULD I WOULD HAVE LIKED TO
HAVE SEEN SOME FURTHER
IMPROVEMENTS NOTABLY A PLAN FOR
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTION TO THE
GREEN SPACE BEHIND THE
DEVELOPMENT AND THE REDUCTION
IN THE IMPERVIOUS SURFACE ON
THIS THE FORMER WOULD REDUCE
POVERTY AND IMPROVE PARKS
ACCESS ACCESS NOT ONLY FOR
RESIDENTS ON THIS NEW PROPERTY
BUT ALSO FOR OTHERS IN THE AREA
SUCH AS THOSE ON MY COLONIAL
SQUARE PARK AT THAT SENSE IF WE
CONNECT THIS PROPERTY TO LOCAL
AND MARY BETH WITHOUT THE NOISY
PEOPLE WALK IN FACT THE LARGER
COST COULD BE ACHIEVED BY
REDUCING THE WIDTH OF THE MAIN
DRIVEWAY WITHIN THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND GETTING RID
OF THE UNNECESSARY SETBACKS ON
THE MAIN DRIVEWAY TO EACH
GARAGE.
THIS WOULD ALSO PROVIDE SOME
MORE GREEN SPACE WITHIN IT THAT
WITHIN THE DEVELOPMENT WHILE I
BELIEVE THEY COULD AND SHOULD
BE MORE UNITS HERE IN THIS
SPACE DEDICATED SOLELY TO MOTOR
VEHICLES, IT IS THE COMPROMISE
WE CAN GET.
>> I BELIEVE IT'S BETTER THAN
LETTING THE SPACE CONTINUE TO
CONTINUE.
>> I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
DEVELOPERS FOR LISTENING TO MY
PREVIOUS COMMENT ABOUT GAS
STOVES AND ENGAGING IN ELECTRIC
COOKERS.
>> WELL, I WOULD LOVE TO SEE
GROUND SOURCE HEAT FROM GLASGOW
AS A PREVIOUS SPEAKER SHOWED
JUST HOW MUCH THIS WILL BE
REDUCING US CO2 EMISSIONS
ESPECIALLY SINCE TEMPER
TANTRUMS ARE WIDELY KNOWN TO A
MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT TYPE
OF BUILDINGS AND THEY LIKE
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT WOULD
GO UP IN THE IN THE TOWNSHIPS
TO REPLACE THEM.
SO BUILDING A HOUSE MORE ENERGY
EFFICIENT TYPE OF THAT TYPE
OF BUILDING
AND REDUCING
COMMUTES SEEMS LIKE A HUGE
WASTE TO ME ON THAT FRONT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE WAITING TO SPEAK?
WE HAVE TWO MORE HANDS RAISED.
THE FIRST IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN THREE SIX ZERO.
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TWO ON
MUTE YOURSELF.
OK, YES.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS NOT THE TO YOU THAT I
ALSO LIVE IN WILLIAMSBURG AND
JUST TO REITERATE WHAT THE
FIRST SPEAKER SAID WE HAVE TWO
ENTRANCES ON THE WILLIAMSBURG
OR COLONIAL SQUARE AND BOTH
OF THEM ARE EXIT FROM PLATERO.
SO WE'RE VERY WORRIED ABOUT THE
CONSTRUCTION THAT WILL BE THERE
BECAUSE IT WILL BECOME ALREADY
A NIGHTMARE IN THE MORNING TO
LEAVE WHEN WE GO TO WORK OR
FROM SCHOOL TO EVEN FIND A
MOMENT OR A PLACE TO EXHIBIT
THE CARS COME THEY ARE TRAPPED.
THEY DON'T NEED THE SPACE FOR
THAT ENTRANCE.
SO I DON'T EVEN THINK OF THAT
EVEN LIGHT WILL BE HELPFUL TO
THAT EXTENT.
I THINK THE BEST WOULD BE TO
MAYBE DO IT TO LIGHT WHEN YOU
DESIGN FOR CONSTRUCTION TO
THINK ABOUT INCREASING THE SIZE
OF THAT.
IT'S A VERY NARROW ROAD WITH A
LOT OF TRAFFIC.
SO IN THE SQUARE IT'S BECOMING
A PROBLEM FOR THANK THANK YOU
.
THE LAST HANDS RAISED IS JAMES
DEMORA.
JAMES, THE MORE YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO SPEAK WITH
MANAGER JEREMY HELLO.
YOU CAN BE HEARD.
>> GREAT.
THANKS FOR TAKING ME IN AT THE
LAST MINUTE.
I'M CERTAINLY BEEN INTERESTED
IN THIS PROJECT.
I WAS ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ONE ITERATION CAME
BEFORE US SO IT'S INTERESTING
TO SEE THE PROGRESS THAT HAS
HAPPENED.
JUST SOME QUICK COMMENTS JUST
IN GENERAL I WOULD HOPE IN
TERMS OF DEVELOPMENT THAT WE DO
GO TO ALL LECTURE FORMAT AS
MUCH AS WE CAN SIMPLY BECAUSE
WE SIMPLY WHEN WE HAVE THE
EQUATION OF GAS FIRED MOST
OF THE TOWNSHIPS VERSUS THE
CITY, WE HAVE NO CONTROL OVER
THAT HAPPENING.
SO WE HAVE TO MAKE OUR OWN
HOUSES AS BEST AS WE COULD
REGARDING DENSITY IN GENERAL IF
WE BUILD IT HERE, DOESN'T WANT
TO ORDER FROM THEM BUILDING AND
ELSEWHERE WITHIN THE TOWNSHIP
BE THE CONSIDERATIONS IN TERMS
OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
OF THE PROJECT.
THAT BEING SAID, I HOPE THE
DECISIONS YOU MADE TONIGHT WILL
BE REASONABLE AND YOU'RE TAKING
ACCOUNT NEIGHBORHOOD CONCERNS.
CERTAINLY I'M INTERESTED IN
IMPAX IN TERMS OF A BUDDING
MARY BETH DOYLE PARK BUT NICE
CONNECTIVES THERE.
BUT THIS IS WHERE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW.
THAT BEING SAID, THANKS FOR
CONSIDERING MY REMARKS.
>> THANK YOU
.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL READ THE THREE MOTIONS
AND I RECOMMEND THAT WE JUST
TAKE THEM ALL AS AS ONE.
SO THE FIRST ONE IS THE
UNIVERSITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVES THE FLAT ROAD TOWNHOME
SITE PLAN AND RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AS A SITE PLAN
COMPLIES WITH ALL THE
APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE AND
OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS,
ORDINANCES STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS AND BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS ALL
PARCELS MUST BE COMBINED BEFORE
THE ISSUANCE OF ANY BUILDING
PERMITS AND FINAL APPROVAL FROM
THE WASHINGTON COUNTY RESOURCE
COMMISSIONER.
THE SECOND ONE IS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE WETLAND
USE PERMIT FOR THE ROAD
TOWNHOMES PROJECT SITE PLAN AND
THIRD IS THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES
THEIR PROPOSED LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS.
ACCORDING TO CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE ,
SECTION FIVE POINT TO ZERO
POINT ONE WILL BE TO REQUIRE
ONE TREE FOR A RIGHT OF WAY
SCREENING EVERY FORTY FIVE FEET
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER YHA
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DESH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION ON FLAT
ROAD COMMISSIONER DISH THANKS
TO THE PETITIONER AND STAFF FOR
THE REALLY INFORMATIVE
PRESENTATIONS IT IS GREAT TO
SEE THAT THE PETITIONER OFFERS
BECAUSE WE ARE NOT IN A
POSITION TO IN A POSITION TO
COMPEL SO IT IS GREAT TO SEE
THAT THE PETITIONER OFFERS HIGH
EFFICIENCY APPLIANCES AND
LIGHTING DISCOUNTED BUS RATE
BUT BUS PASSES AND ELECTRIC
COOKTOP STOVES AND DRYERS.
HOWEVER, IT SEEMS TO ME THAT IF
I'M UNDER IF I'M READING THIS
PROPOSAL CORRECTLY YOU ARE
PROPOSING OR THE PROJECT
PROPOSES EVVY CAPABLE NOT EVVY
NOTHING READY OR RATHER NOTHING
EVVY INSTALLED AND THAT DOESN'T
SEEM PERHAPS THIS PROJECT
STARTED BEFORE WE HAD THE
ORDINANCE BUT WE'VE HAD MANY
PETITIONERS OFFER TO COMPLY
WITH OUR CURRENT REGULATIONS SO
I WONDER WHY THIS DOESN'T
ALWAYS I HAD REQUESTED THAT AT
THE VERY LEAST YOU DO A
FEASIBILITY STUDY TO PRICE OUT
ALTERNATIVES TO GAS HEATING.
I WONDER IF YOU HAD DONE THAT
AND YOU JUST DIDN'T SHARE THE
RESULTS AND I'D BE CURIOUS TO
HEAR WHAT THEY WERE.
THEY ALSO REQUESTED THAT YOU
PRICE OUT SOLAR AND ON BATTERY
STORAGE AND AT A MINIMUM
PROVIDE FOR SOLAR READINESS SO
THAT YOUR THE PEOPLE WHO BUY
THESE HOMES IF THEY WANT TO
INSTALL SOLAR, IT'S FACILITATED
FOR THEM.
AND SO THOSE THREE QUESTIONS
ARE QUESTIONS I'M PUTTING ON
THE TABLE FOR DEBATE FROM
COLLEAGUES OR THE PETITIONER
AND THEN I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR
STAFF SPEAK TO THE CONCERNS
THAT HAVE BEEN RAISED ABOUT
TRAFFIC.
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO START
WITH THE PETITIONER STEPH?
WHY DON'T WE START WITH THE
PETITIONER
?
THANK YOU FOR YOUR THE PUBLIC
FOR THEIR COMMENTS AND WE
UNDERSTAND THE ENVIRONMENT THAT
WE'RE HERE WORKING IN AND WE'RE
WORKING VERY COLLABORATIVELY
WITH OUR STAFF, WITH
RESEARCHERS AND WITH THE MARKET
AS WELL AS TO ADDRESS ISSUES,
COMMENTS SPECIFICALLY THE THE
RECOMMENDATION FROM THE
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE WAS TO
MAKE THE UNITS HAVE THE
CONDUITS FOR THE STATIONS AND
TO HAVE OUR PANEL AVAILABILITY
WITHIN THE WITHIN THE ELECTRIC
PANEL.
I WASN'T ACTUALLY PUT THE
CHARGERS IN SO THEY WILL BE
EQUIPPED SO THAT IF A CHARGER
WANTED TO GO IN COULD PUT IT ON
A MOMENT'S NOTICE AND ALL THE
CONDUIT WOULD ALREADY BE IN
PLACE FOR IT.
SO YOU KNOW IF AND WHEN
ELECTRIC VEHICLES TAKE ON MORE
POPULARITY THOSE UNITS WOULD BE
UPGRADED AND THEY'RE EQUIPPED
FOR THAT.
WE ARE CURRENTLY STUDYING SOLAR
THE THE WE DON'T WANT TO BUT
SOLAR ON THE GROUND BECAUSE
IT'S NOT PRACTICAL WOULD TAKE
UP GROUND SPACE VERY SMALL
ROOFLINE AND THERE'S A LOT
OF TREES IN THERE SO IT'S NOT A
EXTREMELY POPULAR OR PRACTICAL
PLACE FOR SOLAR.
WE ARE STUDYING IT.
WE WOULD POTENTIALLY MAKE
AVAILABLE FOR THE FUTURE.
WE DID DO A RUDIMENTARY FITA
FEASIBILITY STUDY ON ELECTRIC.
IT WOULD ADD SEVERAL THOUSAND
DOLLARS TO EACH UNIT TO MAKE
FURNACES ELECTRIC AND WATER
HEATERS ELECTRIC.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE CONCERN AS
MUCH THE CONCERN IS PASSING
THAT COST ON TO THE CONSUMER TO
OPERATE A MUCH MORE INEFFICIENT
SYSTEM IN TERMS OF COST FROM AN
ELECTRIC SYSTEM.
SO WHICH SHOULD BE NOTICED HERE
IS WHEN YOU LOOK AT THIS
PRODUCT THESE ARE NOT SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES SO THEY ARE WELL
INSULATED THE HOMES BACK ON TO
ANOTHER HEATED UNIT THERE THREE
STOREY.
SO THERE'S YOU KNOW, THE HEAT
WILL RISE SO THERE WOULD BE
LESS HEAT GENERATED FROM THESE
UNITS, LESS FURNACE USE THAN A
TYPICAL SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
SO THEY ARE VERY EFFICIENT
UNITS ARE VERY EFFICIENT FROM A
INSULATION STANDPOINT.
>> THEY'RE VERY EFFICIENT FROM
A DESIGN STANDPOINT.
ALL THE APPLIANCES WOULD BE
HIGH EFFICIENCY FURNACES AND
APPLIANCES.
SO WE WE HAVE DONE A LOT TO
MAKE IT A ENERGY EFFICIENT
ALBEIT PARTIAL ELECTRIC AND
PARTIAL GAS UNIT AND WE'RE
CURRENTLY STUDYING BATTERY
STORAGE BUT NOT IN TIME FOR
THIS PLAN.
BUT I HOPE I'VE ANSWERED YOUR
QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
DID YOU WANT STAFF TO RESPOND
TO THE TRAFFIC?
>> OK, JUST REGARDS TO THE E.V.
IT IS TOWNHOUSE DWELLING UNITS
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT REQUIRED
FOR CAPABLE SO AND THAT'S WHAT
THEY'VE PUT.
THEY'VE MET UNSCREWS GOING
THROUGH.
>> I CAN TELL YOU THAT THE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER DID
APPROVE THIS.
I JUST DON'T HAVE A VERY GOOD
SUMMARY UNTIL I GO THROUGH HERE
AND I THINK AND START REVIEWING
COMMENTS BUT IT WAS APPROVED
YOU KNOW, THEIR INITIAL
SUBMITTAL
ANYBODY ELSE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
I'LL PIGGYBACK A LITTLE BIT ON
THE COMMISSIONER DISHES
QUESTIONS TO THE PETITIONER
AGAIN IF YOU COME
UP I GUESS MY
FIRST QUESTION AND MAYBE I
MISSED THIS SOMEWHERE ARE THESE
RENTALS ARE THESE FOR SALE
TOWNHOMES?
>> THEY WOULD BE INITIALLY A
RENTAL UNITS BUT THEY ARE BUILT
TOWNHOME QUALITY SO THEY COULD
BE FOR SALE IN THE FUTURE.
I MEAN I AGREE WITH YOU.
I THINK THE SIZE IS NEEDED IN
THE MARKET HERE.
I THINK THAT RENT OR SELL LIKE
THESE WILL BE VERY POPULAR WITH
YOU.
SO THANK YOU FOR PROVIDING THAT
TYPE OF HOUSING.
I THINK MY ONLY MY ONLY REAL I
GUESS MY ONLY REAL THING WOULD
BE JUST LIKE TO PUSH YOU AS
MUCH AS WE CAN ON THE SOLAR AND
BATTERIES LIKE THE INDUCTION NO
INFLATION REDUCTION ACT HAS A
LOT OF REBATES ESPECIALLY IF
YOU'RE GOING TO BE RENTING THEM
INITIALLY THE DEVELOPER WOULD
KEEP I THINK THOSE REBATES YOU
KNOW, HEAT PUMP WATER HEATERS,
SOLAR APPLIANCES ETC. DON'T LET
ANYBODY TELL YOU HEAT PUMP
WATER HEATERS DON'T WORK IN
MICHIGAN BECAUSE THEY DO.
I JUST GOT ONE AND SOMEBODY
ACTUALLY TOLD ME THEY WOULD NOT
WORK AND IF THE SOLAR DOES WORK
OBVIOUSLY LIKE THEN YOUR
ELECTRIC COSTS WOULD BE LOWER
IF YOU'RE BRING IN THOSE TYPES
OF APPLIANCES.
SO I JUST ENCOURAGE YOU TO KEEP
LOOKING AT THAT AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE AND LOOK INTO THESE
REBATES BECAUSE I THINK THAT
WILL HELP MAKE IT PENCIL WORK
PERHAPS WE WILL WE'D LIKE THAT
NOT TO BE A CONDITION BUT WE
WOULD CONTINUE TO, YOU KNOW,
STUDY THAT AND MR. ANDERSON,
HIS SON IS HERE.
ANOTHER GENERATION ARE LONG
TERM HOLDERS AND VERY
INVESTMENT IN COST SAVINGS ARE
VERY IMPORTANT.
>> TONY, YOU WANT TO ADD AND WE
ARE WE'RE WORKING WITH DOCTOR
AND TONY RANDALL SO WE'RE
WORKING AT DIANA
STEPHANOPOULOS.
SHE'S THE DIRECTOR
OF ENGINEERING AND SHE
SPECIFICALLY ASKED ME TO WORK
WITH HER REGARDING THE BATTERY.
I'M VERY PRO ENVIRONMENTAL.
I BELIEVE WE NEED TO SAVE
ENERGY.
I DO BELIEVE THERE'S GLOBAL
WARMING.
IT IS A CONCERN TO ME
PERSONALLY IF YOU RECALL WHEN
WE DID OUR PROJECT ON MAIN
STREET WE ARE GOING TO HAVE
ELECTRIC FURNACES THERE SO THAT
WAS A CONCESSION HOWEVER AND
THEY'RE GOING TO BE FOR SALE.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO PROBABLY
BOOT THE COST IF THERE IS ANY.
I'VE I'VE HAD SOME MIXED
REVIEWS.
THEY ARE GETTING BETTER HOWEVER
WE WANT WE BELIEVE IN
AFFORDABILITY AND I THINK IT'S
IMPERATIVE THAT WE CONSIDER
THAT THE CITY THAT'S WHY THESE
UNITS ARE KIND OF SNUG, VERY
EFFICIENT.
WE BUILT A PROJECT DOWN THE
STREET ON CASSWELL AND ST.
SCHOOL SO WE'RE VERY FAMILIAR
WITH WHAT PEOPLE WANT.
I THINK THIS IS AN IMPROVEMENT
AND THE OTHER THING IS WE DO
ENERGY SEELE ALL OF OUR UNITS
WHICH GIVES YOU A HIGHER
EFFICIENCY AND YOU PROBABLY
KNOW THIS BUT THE FURNACES
OF TODAY ARE MUCH MORE
EFFICIENT THAN THE ONES OF THE
90 PLUS AND THE HEAT BILLS ARE
REALLY VERY MODERATE TO
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
>> THANK YOU.
IF YOU IF YOU CAN GET SOLAR
THINGS FIGURED OUT BEFORE I
THINK YOU WANT TO COUNCIL I
THINK THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
THERE WE JUST GO TO COUNCIL.
>> NO WE'VE NOT A RESOUNDING
YEAH I BE CONFUSED ABOUT THIS
OK IT STOPS HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO LOOK AT IT
ALTHOUGH WE DON'T WANT
CONTENTION BECAUSE IT'S JUST A
BENEFIT FOR EVERYBODY IN COMMON
SENSE RIGHT.
>> OK, THANK YOU
.
ANYBODY ELSE MR MILLS?
>> I CONCUR WITH WHAT EVERYONE
SAID AND MY SENSE IS THAT THIS
FITS WITHIN THE PARAMETERS
OF THE EXISTING ZONING LIKE
OTHERS, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO
THINK MORE ABOUT THE
SUSTAINABILITY BUT TO SOME
OF THE CALCULATIONS THAT WERE
BROUGHT UP I AGREE WITH WHAT
EVERYONE SAID.
I HAD A STUDENT DIG INTO SOME
OF THE CALCULATIONS AND I WOULD
JUST ALSO POINT OUT THAT IF
THIS WERE TO BE BUILT ELSEWHERE
IT'S NOT JUST OUTSIDE IN A
TOWNSHIP.
IT'S NOT JUST THE COMMUTING
INTO THE CITY THAT ADDS YOU
KNOW, THAT WOULD ADD EMISSIONS
.
IT'S ALSO IN THOSE PLACES YOU
HAVE TO COMMUTE FOR OR YOU HAVE
TO DRIVE FOR ALL OF YOUR OTHER
THINGS SO IT'S NOT JUST THE
COMMUTING EMISSIONS BUT IT'S
ALSO THE WITHIN TOWN KIND
OF RUNNING ERRANDS THAT ARE
REALLY CAR DEPENDENT.
AND SO I THINK THAT THERE'S
SOMEDAY THIS WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
IT WILL NEED TO BE JUST TO MAKE
THAT VERY CLEAR, I ENCOURAGE
YOU TO CONTINUE TO LOOK AND IN
THE THINGS THAT YOU'RE
DEVELOPING TO ALWAYS PUT THAT
ON THE TABLE, I BUT I THINK
THAT THIS DOES MEET THE
STANDARDS THAT WE'VE SET FORTH
.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER EVANS.
I JUST WANTED TO RETURN TO THE
QUESTION ON TRAFFIC AND MAYBE
JUST FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT YOU
DESCRIBE WHAT IT MEANS TO SAY
THAT IT WAS APPROVED LIKE WHAT
IS THE WHAT ARE THE CRITERIA
FOR APPROVAL AND OUR RESIDENTS
CONCERNS ABOUT INCREASED
TRAFFIC IN THAT AREA BEING THAT
I WISH I WERE A TRAFFIC
ENGINEER, I COULD EXPLAIN TO
ACTUALLY I WAS KIND OF LOOKING
THROUGH THAT THE SUMMARY IT IS
AND IS THE ATTACHMENTS I DO
KNOW IT WAS APPROVED I WAS
LOOKING JUST FOR A BRIEF
SUMMARY BUT REALLY DOESN'T GIVE
A SUMMARY THAT I COULD I COULD
STATE BUT I CAN TELL YOU THAT
IT IS UPLOADED.
NO, I DON'T WANT TO PUT WORDS
IN THE TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
MOUTH.
>> SO I GUESS I'M JUST ASKING
LIKE COULD ANYONE DESCRIBE WHAT
ARE THE GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR
APPROVAL?
THAT MEANS THAT THE TRAFFIC
ENGINEER HAS CONCLUDED THAT
THERE ARE NO CONCERNS ABOUT
INCREASED ABOVE A CERTAIN
THRESHOLD OR TRAFFIC SAFETY.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO CAN
HELP?
SO GENERALLY TRAFFIC IS LOOKING
AT A VARIETY OF THINGS.
THEY ARE LOOKING AT HOW THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT INTERACTS
WITH OUR ROAD NETWORK SO THAT
TENDS TO BE A LOT OF ANALYSIS
IN CONSULTATION WITH OUR
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT ABOUT
THINGS LIKE RADIUSES
CLEARANCES, VISIBILITY, HOW
THOSE INTERSECTIONS ACTUALLY
INTERSECT WITH WITH THE ROAD
NETWORK.
IN ADDITION TO THAT FOR A
PROJECT I'M PRESUMING THIS HAD
A TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY CITY
PLANNER TANKAN CORRECT ME IF
I'M WRONG THAT THEY ARE ALSO
PROVIDING DATA AS TO HOW THIS
PROJECT WILL CHANGE VOLUMES IN
THE NETWORK THAT MODEL THEN
PROJECTS HOW IF, IF AND HOW IT
MIGHT HAVE IMPACTS TO DELAYS AT
INTERSECTIONS.
I WILL SAY THOUGH THAT OUR
TRAFFIC ANALYSIS HAS NOT
STANDARDS HAVE NOT CHANGED AND
EVOLVED WITH A LOT OF WHAT I
THINK WE WOULD BE THINKING
BASICALLY IS THAT IT IS THAT
THE TRAFFIC ANALYSIS IS
COMPLETE.
IT MEETS BASIC SAFETY
CONFIGURATION REQUIREMENTS AND
IT DOESN'T IF IF THE LEVEL
OF SERVICE DIPS BELOW DENHA OR
UP THE SITE THEN COULD BE
RECOMMENDED FOR DENIAL THAT
DOESN'T IS RECOMMENDED FOR
DENIAL.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THIS PROJECT
IS I WOULD BE I CAN'T SPEAK TO
THE TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY BUT
BASED ON A VOLUME OF THE NUMBER
OF UNITS I WOULD BE VERY
SURPRISED THAT THIS WOULD HAVE
A SIGNIFICANT CHANGE ON THE
LEVEL OF SERVICE SOME OF THE
FACTORS THAT COMMISSIONERS ARE
ALREADY TALKING ABOUT THE
BIGGEST IMPACT ON LEVEL
OF SERVICE ON PLAT OR ANY ROAD
IN OUR IN OUR CITY ARE JOB
CREATION.
THE THE UNIVERSITY UNITS I
THINK IT WAS MENTIONED UNITS
HAPPENING IN THE CITY PROVIDE
THE OPPORTUNITY FOR ALTERNATIVE
MODES.
BUT I WANT TO BE CLEAR FROM NON
TRAFFIC ENGINEER ABOUT A PLAN
OR PERSPECTIVE.
THE LEVEL OF SERVICE ON OUR
ROADS IS GOING TO DECREASE WITH
TIME AND LESS.
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
ALL OF OUR JOB CENTERS DECIDE
NOW LET'S RECALL LET'S NOT
BRING ANYBODY ELSE TO THE
HOSPITAL OR TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
SO AND I WOULD JUST I JUST
OPENED UP THE TRAFFIC REVIEW
NOT TO WANT TO PUT WORDS IN THE
TRAFFIC ENGINEERS MOUTH BUT
THEY'VE DONE IT UNDER SEVERAL I
THINK USES ONE BEING MULTIPLE
HOUSING LOW RISE ONE BEING
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING LOW RISE,
MID RISE, MID RISE ALL OF THEM
IF I'M JUST LOOKING AT IT JUST
IN SUMMARY, IT'S DATING IT'S
AROUND FROM FOUR TO SEVEN AND
NINE A.M. IT'S POINT FOUR SIX
AVERAGE RATE PER DWELLING.
SO I HALF A TRIP DURING PEAK
HOURS AT SEVEN TO NINE IF I
LOOK AT IT YOU KNOW AT FOUR TO
SIX P.M. AGAIN IT'S ABOUT A
HALF A POINT FIVE SIX PER
DWELLING UNIT.
SO IT'S LESS THAN A TRIP DURING
YOU KNOW THE MORNING AND
AFTERNOON PEAK HOURS.
SO THEY'RE ROUGHLY AROUND POINT
FIFTY SIX POINT FOUR FOR
SOMEWHERE AROUND THERE FROM
WHAT THEY'VE SUBMITTED.
MADAM CHAIRMAN, ONE OF THE
THINGS THE PLANNERS LOOK AT IN
THE TRAFFIC CONSULTANTS AND IN
YOUR OWN ORDINANCE YOUR DENSITY
ORDINANCE IS DESIGNED FOR A
PARTICULAR AREA AND PARTICULAR
ROAD STRUCTURE.
SO YOUR OWN DENSITY ORDINANCE
CONTEMPLATED THIS MANY UNITS
AND AS MUCH TRAFFIC SO IT'S
KIND OF INCORPORATED WITHIN
THAT WHAT WE'RE FINDING IN THIS
TOWN ON PRODUCT BOTH IN YOUR
COMMUNITY AND MANY OTHER
COMMUNITIES IS COVID CHANGE THE
WORLD AND TO CHANGE THE WORK
PROCESS AND WE HAVE SO MANY
MORE PEOPLE WORKING FROM HOME
OR IF THEY'RE NOT WORKING FROM
HOME THEY'RE HAVE MORE OF A
FLEX TIME COMMUTING STRUCTURE.
SO THE TRAFFIC IS NOW AMONG ALL
THE COMMUNITIES SPREAD OUT OVER
MUCH OF AN AREA.
SO CONSEQUENTLY WE'RE NOT
GETTING AS MUCH PUSHBACK ON
TRAFFIC AND MANY OF THE
COMMUNITIES AND TRAFFIC HAS
BECOME MUCH BETTER THAN US
MEETS WITHIN THE CRITERIA
OF THAT ANYBODY ELSE.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé, I'M
IMAGINING YOU'RE GOING TO BRING
THIS UP BUT I'M GOING TO BE THE
LAST THING THAT I HEARD WAS
CONCERNS ABOUT KIND OF MAJOR
MIGRATIONS ON THE SOUTHERN EDGE
OF THE CITY AND AS I UNDERSTAND
IT, THERE'S AN ADDITIONAL HASSO
BEFORE THE HIGHWAY AND YOU'VE
GOT A DETENTION BASIN THAT
CONNECTS.
BUT CAN YOU SPEAK TO KIND
OF YOUR LANDSCAPE PLAN AND SOME
OF THE MIGRATIONS BETWEEN THE
PARKS THAT ARE HAPPENING AND IF
YOU EVALUATED THOSE WITH THE
SITUATION OF THE BUILDING?
>> YEAH, I'M GOING TO ASK JOHN
CURRY, THE CIVIL ENGINEER TO
COME UP AND ADDRESS YOUR
SPECIFIC QUESTION
.
YOU REPHRASE
YOUR CONCERNS.
>> WHAT WAS THAT LANDSCAPE WE
HEARD WE HEARD A BIT ABOUT
MIGRATION OVER TO THE MARYBETH
DOYLE FROM THE FORCE AREA
BEHIND THE SCHOOLS.
AND SO NOW THAT THERE'S A LARGE
AREA OF NATURAL LANDSCAPE
THAT'S GOING TO BE INTERRUPTED
BY NEW DEVELOPMENT, AS I AS I
READ THE PLAN, THERE'S A
DETENTION PLANNED ON THE SOUTH
SIDE IN THIS ADDITIONAL KIND
OF GREEN SPACE FOR THAT
MIGRATION BETWEEN THE TWO GREEN
AREAS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT WAS THAT EVALUATED AT ALL
IN TERMS OF KIND OF NATURAL
MIGRATION PATTERNS OR MOVEMENT
BETWEEN NATURAL AREAS OF THE
AREA LIKE THE AREA BEYOND YOUR
SITE AS FAR AS WILDLIFE
MIGRATION, WE DID NOT
SPECIFICALLY LOOK AT THAT.
OK, I MEAN THERE'S A LOT
OF BUFFER AROUND IT STILL.
I MEAN IF YOU LOOK AT THERE'S
STILL A LOT OF GREEN AROUND THE
MARSH BEHIND THE BACK AND ALL
THAT PROTECTED AREA I DON'T
KNOW THE DIRECT ROUTE THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
YEAH, BUT DIRECTLY SOUTH
OF BUSSES I KNOW THAT'S A
PRIVATE PARCEL AND WE DON'T
KNOW WHERE IT'LL BE BUT TO THE
SOUTH CURRENTLY BETWEEN US AND
THE EXPRESSWAY IS STILL GREEN
AND THEN CERTAINLY THE ENTIRE
EAST SIDE OR THE WEST SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY IS ALL NATURAL
AND PRESERVED AND I AS I
UNDERSTAND IT IT'S LIKE ONE
HUNDRED AND TEN FEET TO THE
SOUTH SIDE FROM THE LAST
BUILDING STRUCTURE.
SO YOU'VE GOT 100 FOOT YES.
>> TO THE PROPERTY LINE THAT
THAT'S THAT VERY SOUTHWEST
CORNER IS ALL NATURAL.
>> OK, SO SO THE LIKELIHOOD
THAT THAT SOUTHERN RESIDENTS
DEVELOPING ITS PARCEL YOU'D
ALWAYS HAVE AT LEAST ONE
HUNDRED FOOT BAND BETWEEN
PROPERTIES.
YES.
IT'S PLANNED ALSO THE
FLOODPLAIN KIND OF COMES
THROUGH THERE SO EVEN WHEN THAT
DOES DEVELOP THEY'RE GOING TO
BE LIMITED BY THEY CAN GO ON
THOSE.
OK, APPRECIATE IT AND I MEAN I
WOULD JUST KIND OF ECHO
COMMENTS OVERALL FROM EVERYBODY
CONTINUE TO DEVELOP AS YOU MOVE
TOWARDS THE BUILDING PERMIT
PROCESS.
I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF INNOVATION IN TAX TAX
CAPTURE FOR INCENTIVES AND I
WOULD JUST ADD TO THAT THAT THE
HOUSING TYPE YOU HAVE SEEMS
PARTICULARLY WELL SUITED
ACTUALLY TO BE ABLE TO BECAUSE
ALL THESE UNITS THEN ALL NEXT
TO EACH OTHER ARE ACTUALLY IT'S
NOT A HIGH RISE.
SO IT'S VERY DIFFERENT IN THAT
WAY.
IT'S REALLY SET UP WELL TO BE
ABLE TO HANDLE ELECTRIFICATION
AND IF YOU CAN DO THE SOLAR
THEN AND YOU'RE RENTING THAT
PAYS FOR ITSELF OVER TIME.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER PIECE OF THE
PUZZLE TO THINK ABOUT AS YOU'RE
AS YOU'RE DOING IT ESPECIALLY
WITH THE 30 PERCENT REBATE THAT
THE GOVERNMENT IS GIVING.
SO AGAIN, WE DON'T HAVE TEETH
FOR THAT RIGHT NOW BUT IT'S
SOMETHING THAT WE REALLY WOULD
ENCOURAGE YOU TO LOOK AT AS AN
OPPORTUNITY AS WELL IF YOU
THERE ARE PEOPLE OUT THERE THAT
CAN HELP YOU WITH THIS IN TERMS
OF HOW TO THINK THROUGH IT, OK,
ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE OF VOTE
ON THE MOTIONS AS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER BRANDLE?
YES, COMMISSIONER SAUVé YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
IT IS.
YES, MR. CLARK.
YES, COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER M. YES.
THOSE MOTIONS PASS
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH AND WE
APPRECIATE YOUR COMMENTS AND
WE'LL CONTINUE TO WORK WITH
STAFF IN THE PERMITTING
DEPARTMENT, INCORPORATE A LOT
OF THE IDEAS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OK, WE ARE ON TO ITEM EIGHT B
WHICH IS 721 SOUTH FOREST PD
REZONING AND SITE PLAN LIKE WE
ARE GETTING SET UP FOR
PETITIONER PRESENTATION FOR TEN
MINUTES AND THEN WE'LL HAVE A
STAFF PRESENTATION AFTER
.
WELL GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
RYAN BOWEN WAS SUBTEXTS WHERE
THE DEVELOPERS ON A PROJECT I'D
LIKE TO THANK YOU ALL FOR
HAVING US HERE TONIGHT AND
WE'RE EXCITED TO BE BACK IN
FRONT OF YOU AND SHARE OUR
UPDATES SINCE WE WERE LAST IN
FRONT OF YOU DURING OUR WORKING
SESSION.
THANKS BRETT MATT AND STAFF FOR
ALL YOUR INPUT AND REVIEW
OF OUR PROPOSAL.
WE HAVE A FANTASTIC
MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAM OF LOCAL
PARTNERS THAT WE'VE BROUGHT ON
THIS PROJECT INCLUDING JAY
BRADLEY MOORE AND ASSOCIATES
BRAD STRADER WITH MKC PLANNING
CONSULTANTS JAMBI SOON WITH ECO
WORKS SUSTAINABILITY
CONSULTANTS BILL LAWRENCE WITH
URBAN FORESTRY CONSULTING AND
SCOPPETTA WITH MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING.
WE ALSO HAVE OUR LEAD DESIGN
ARCHITECTS WHO SUBTEXT
PARTNERED WITH ON OUR AWARD
WINNING DESIGN FOR 611 WHICH IS
JUST TWO BLOCKS NORTH OF THE
SUBJECT SITE
.
JUST TELL ME WHEN YOU WANT TO
ADVANCE.
LET'S SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
OUR SITE LOCATED ON SOUTH FOR
STAAB JUST SOUTH OF UNIVERSITY
.
>> WE'RE JUST TWO BLOCKS TO THE
WEST OF THE UNIVERSITY AS WELL
AS WE'VE AT THE RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT THERE TO THE SOUTH
CONTEXTUALLY WE'RE IN A MIXED
USE DISTRICT.
THERE'S A WIDE VARIETY OF USES
INCLUDING HIGH RISE RESIDENTIAL
MID RISE, SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL USES A
SEVEN STORY PARKING GARAGE AND
INSTITUTIONAL USES SUCH AS
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS, GREEK
LIFE AND RELIGIOUS BUILDINGS AS
WELL.
WE HIRED CSK AS PLANNING
CONSULTANTS TO HELP EVALUATE
THE PROPOSED PROJECT IN THE
CONTEXT OF THE SITE LOCATION.
THE CENTRAL AREA PLAN AND
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
AND WHAT WE FOUND THROUGH THIS
EXERCISE WAS THAT THE CURRENT
MASTER PLAN IS NOW 14 YEARS OLD
AND THE EXISTING ZONING IS NOT
COMPATIBLE WITH THE CURRENT USE
FOR THIS LOCATION OR THE
DEVELOPMENT TRENDS IN THE AREA
AS ANN ARBOR STRIVES TO MEET
ITS HOUSING AND SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS NEXT EXCELLENT.
WE FELT THAT THIS LOCATION
WARRANTED MORE DENSITY GIVEN
ITS PROXIMITY TO THE
UNIVERSITY.
THE COMMERCIAL USES AND THE
DAEWON DISTRICT JUST ONE BLOCK
TO THE NORTH.
I THINK STAFF NOTES IN THEIR
REPORT AS WELL THAT THIS
LOCATION CAN'T SUPPORT MORE
DENSITY THAN THE CURRENT LAND
USE DESIGNATION.
AN EXCELLENT HERE'S AN OVERHEAD
VIEW OF THE CONNECTIVITY.
WE'RE JUST OVER A TEN MINUTE
WALK TO THE DOWNTOWN CORE
THROUGH THE DIAG AND CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO BOTH THE DOWNTOWN
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT AND THE
SOUTH UNIVERSITY AND EAST
UNIVERSITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
DISLOCATION IS VERY APPEALING
TO STUDENTS THEY LIKE THE EAST
SIDE OF CAMPUS BUT BY GOING
THROUGH THE DIAG IS STILL JUST
A HALF MILE WALK TO GET TO
DOWNTOWN NEXT LINE.
IN ADDITION TO THE WALKABILITY
THIS LOCATION BOASTS STRONG
CONNECTIONS TO TRANSIT AND BIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THE RIDE BUS LINE IS JUST TO
THE NORTH AND FOR STAFF SERVES
AS A NEIGHBORHOOD CONNECTOR
BETWEEN DEDICATED BIKE LANES TO
THE NORTH AND SOUTH THERE WILL
BE TWO HUNDRED AND SIX BIKE
STALLS WITH A VARIETY OF CLASS
AND CLASS C STORES AS WELL AS
BIKE CHARGING STATIONS ON LEVEL
ONE NEXT SLIDE SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES ON THE PROJECT INCLUDE
A PASSIVE HOUSE INSPIRED
ENVELOPE WITH DOUBLE THE
CODE REQUIRED CONTINUOUS
INSULATION TO REDUCE THERMAL
BRIDGING.
WE'RE PROPOSING AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING COUPLED WITH 100
PERCENT RENEWABLE ENERGY
CERTIFICATES COVERING 10 YEARS
OF ENERGY USES 100 KILOWATTS
BUILDING INTEGRATED SOLAR POWER
ON THE ROOF.
TWENTY SIX EV CHARGING TILES ON
SITE OUT OF NINETY EIGHT TOTAL
PARKING SPOTS.
WE'RE DESIGNING THE PROJECT
LEED SILVER DESIGN STANDARDS
WHICH WILL AUTOMATICALLY REDUCE
THE ENERGY USAGE OF THE PROJECT
BY FIFTEEN PERCENT AND WITH SIX
HUNDRED AND THIRTY EIGHT NEW
BEDS ADDED WE'RE EXPECTING JUST
AN ADDITIONAL SIX VEHICULAR
TRIPS IN THE HOUR.
NEXT LINE WE WENT THROUGH
SEVERAL DESIGN ITERATIONS AND
INCORPORATED A NUMBER
OF CHANGES IN RESPONSE TO
STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK.
MOST IMPORTANTLY THE
PRESERVATION OF THE LOCAL TREE
CANOPY ON THE NORTH SIDE.
THIS RESULTED IN A SIX STORY
STEP DOWN IN THE NORTHEAST
CORNER AND ALL OF THIS TOGETHER
CREATED A VERY RICH FACADE.
WE HAVE A FANTASTIC DELIVERY
AND RIDE SHARE DROP OFF LANE IN
THE FRONT OF THE BUILDING TO
BRING THESE USERS OFF THE
STREET AND WE'RE PLANNING A
FIRST FOR COMMUNITY COFFEE SHOP
THAT WILL BE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
LANDSCAPING ENHANCEMENTS
INCLUDE NATIVE PLANTS AND
POLLINATORS.
>> NEXT LINE, THE RESULTING
PROJECT IS TWELVE STORIES TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY EIGHT UNITS
AND SEVEN HUNDRED AND THIRTY
THREE BEDS PLUS WE'LL HAVE A
ROOFTOP SOLAR SOCIAL LOUNGE AND
THOSE BUILDING INTEGRATED SOLAR
PANELS I THINK THAT THANK YOU
EVERYONE FOR YOUR INPUT AND WE
BELIEVE RESULT HAS TURNED OUT
WONDERFULLY.
>> WE'RE HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE.
THANK YOU.
ANY STAFF MR. KOWALSKI?
GREAT.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
I'M GOING TO READ SOMEWHAT SOME
OF MY NOTES FROM THE STAFF
REPORT ACTUALLY USUALLY I DON'T
DO THAT BUT I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT I COVER VARIOUS ASPECTS
OF SO WE HAVE A PRESENTATION
TONIGHT BUT I WILL READ THE
SUMMARY ASPECTS SO YOU CAN SEE
FROM THE PLANNING STAFF REPORT
STAFF DOES NOT SUPPORT THE
PROJECT IN ITS CURRENT
ITERATION THE DENSITY PER SAY
IS NOT THE ISSUE AT THE SITE.
I THINK WE ALL AGREE THE SITE
COULD USE
ADDITIONAL DENSITY
ABOVE AND BEYOND THE MASTER
PLAN OR THE EXISTING ZONING.
BUT REALLY THE ISSUE IS THE
SIZE OF THE STRUCTURE, THE
MASSING IN THE HEIGHT OF THE
STRUCTURE.
THE AREA AS WAS ILLUSTRATED IS
SURROUNDED BY SURROUNDED BY A
MIX OF USES AS FAR AS SAW USES
AS WELL AS SOME GROUP HOUSING.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, CO-OPS IN
A COUPLE OF OTHER MULTIFAMILY
STRUCTURES THEY ARE OF VARIOUS
HEIGHTS AND DENSITIES.
HOWEVER, NOTHING DOES APPROACH
THE SCALE OF THIS PROJECT.
SO AGAIN THE ADDITIONAL DENSITY
DOES APPEAR REASONABLE OVER THE
CURRENT PROJECTIONS WITHIN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AS WELL AS
THE EXISTING ZONING.
BUT AND THEY HAVE MADE
SIGNIFICANT STEPS IN OTHER
AREAS WHICH I WILL TOUCH ON BUT
I WILL KEEP OBVIOUSLY COMING
BACK TO THE MASS IN THE HEIGHT
ISSUE.
THE PROPOSED HEIGHT AS IT
STANDS RIGHT NOW EXCEEDS EVEN
THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND THE
CLOSEST ONE ZONING DISTRICT
WHICH IS ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
FEET THAT ZONING DISTRICTS
ABOUT TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY
FIVE SORRY ABOUT THREE HUNDRED
OR ALMOST FOUR HUNDRED FEET
AWAY FROM THE PROPERTY.
>> IT DOES ALSO EXCEED THE D TO
STANDARD WHICH IS THE DOWNTOWN
INTERFACE THAT'S ALMOST ABOUT
THREE HUNDRED FEET AWAY AND ONE
OF THE OVERALL CONCERNS IS YOU
CAN SEE FROM MY REPORT AS WELL
AS MY COMMENTS HERE TONIGHT THE
MASSING THE SIZE THAT REALLY
PROHIBITS ANY KIND
OF TRANSITIONAL OR STEP DOWN
DEVELOPMENT TO THE ADJACENT
DISTRICTS.
AGAIN, THE SITE IS SURROUNDED
BY OUR FORESE PROPERTIES WHICH
IS A 30 WHAT HEIGHT LIMIT
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT AND
ABUTTING THE PROPERTY ON BOTH
THE EAST AS WELL AS THE SOUTH
SIDE IS A HISTORIC DISTRICT THE
WASHINGTON HILL HISTORIC
DISTRICT THAT IS A MIX OF R-2
AS WELL AS OUR FOUR ZONING
AGAIN WITH A 30 FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT THEIR SO HAVING SAID THAT
I MEAN THE PETITIONER HAS
REALLY COME A LONG WAY FROM THE
INITIAL SUBMITTAL I WILL SAY IN
WORKING WITH STAFF I THINK
ARCHITECTURALLY THE THE PROJECT
IS SIGNIFICANT I THINK IN MY
MIND IS IMPROVED OVER THE
INITIAL SUBMISSION AND REALLY
GOT TO THAT IT FITS ABOUT AS
WELL AS A BUILDING OF THAT SIZE
COULD I THINK IN THE GROUND
LEVEL IS NICE AS WELL.
THEY'VE COME A GREAT DEAL AND
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES AS WELL
.
YOU CAN SEE FROM THE REPORT I
DID NOT SUMMARIZE ALL OF THEM
WITHIN MINE BUT YOU CAN SEE
WITHIN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS AS WELL AS THE
ATTACHMENTS THAT THEY PROVIDED
.
THERE ARE NUMS
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS, SOME
OF WHICH WERE INTRODUCED
INITIALLY, SOME OF WHICH THEY
HAVE WORKED WITH OUR THE STAFF
AT THE OSSIAN TO IMPROVE
CERTAIN ASPECTS OF THAT AND
AGAIN VERY SIGNIFICANT
NOTEWORTHY IN THE PROJECT IS
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION NOW AGAIN THAT IS
REQUIRED FOR A PD OF THIS SIZE
AND IT'S EXCEEDING THE
RESIDENTIAL SPACE DENSITY BUT
THEY ARE PROVIDING ABOVE AND
BEYOND THAT A CONTRIBUTION AS
WELL TO BASICALLY UP TO FOUR
POINT SEVEN MILLION FROM A
LITTLE BIT ABOVE FOUR POINT SIX
AS ARE REQUIRED.
THEY WERE ALSO PROPOSING A
DONATION.
IT'S FIFTY THOUSAND TO THE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
TO ASSIST IN PROJECTS IN THAT
AREA THEY ARE GOING OR SORRY
THERE WILL ALSO BE CONTRIBUTING
A PARKS DONATION AS WELL TO BE
USED WITH IN THE ADJACENT PARKS
THERE WE DID AS I MENTIONED WE
DID RUN IT THROUGH THE THE
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
INITIATIVES WHILE THEY DIDN'T
SUPPORT THE PROJECT DIRECTLY,
THEY DID ACKNOWLEDGE SOME
OF THE IMPROVEMENTS THAT THE
PETITIONER HAS MADE AND THEY'VE
COME A LONG WAY WITH THAT.
HOWEVER, AGAIN, THE OSSI DID
NOT SUPPORT THE PROJECT AS IT
WAS PRESENTED AND I THINK
REALLY THAT SUMMARIZES UP KIND
OF THE MAIN COMMENTS THAT I
WANTED TO COVER TONIGHT AND
OBVIOUSLY I WILL BE AVAILABLE
FOR ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
ALREADY WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK UP TO THREE MINUTES ABOUT
THIS PROJECT WILL FIRST CALL ON
PEOPLE HERE AND THEN CALL ON
PEOPLE REMOTELY FOR PHONE
ACCESS.
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HANDS.
WHEN YOU'RE SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS THERE.
PEOPLE HERE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION.
HI I'M MARKUS DENHA THIRTEEN
TWENTY ONE FOR HEARST COURT
WHERE I'VE LIVED FOR OVER 40
YEARS.
I AM STRENUOUSLY OPPOSED TO THE
APPLICATION FOR A PDA 721
FOREST.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT THE ANALYSIS
OF MATT KOWALSKI AND THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF IN
HIS MEMOS OF OCTOBER 13TH
DECEMBER 12TH.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT THE PLANNING
AND DEVELOPMENT STAFF REPORT
STRONGLY RECOMMENDING DENIAL.
THE PROPOSED LUXURY STUDENT
APARTMENT BUILDING IS TOTALLY
INCONSISTENT WITH THE ZONING
OF THIS SITE AND THE LAND USE
GOALS OF THE CITY'S MASTER PLAN
.
IT SIGNIFICANTLY EXCEEDS ANY
DENSITY AND BUILDING SIZE
PERMITTED FOR THE ZONING
DISTRICT.
THE PROPOSED BUILDING IS
TOTALLY OUT OF CHARACTER WITH
THE SURROUNDING OUR FORCING
NEIGHBORHOOD A DIVERSE AND
PLEASANT AREA OF WELL
MAINTAINED RESIDENCES, SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDINGS, FRATERNITY
AND SORORITY HOUSES AND A CHILD
CARE CENTER.
IT CONTRAVENES THE CENTRAL AREA
LAND USE RECOMMENDATION THAT
SEEK TO ENCOURAGE APPROPRIATE
DEVELOPMENT TO PROTECT THE
EXISTING CHARACTER
OF NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS PROJECT CLEARLY DOES NONE
OF THIS.
UNLIKE THE RECENTLY CONSTRUCTED
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS AT
720 WATT 727 SOUTH FOREST AND
ADJACENT AT THIRTEEN FIFTEEN
HILL AT THE CORNER OF HILL AND
SOUTH FOREST AS WELL AS THE
TOWNSLEY CHILDREN'S HOUSE.
THE PROPOSED IS IN COMPLETE AND
TOTAL VIOLATION OF THE ZONING
CREATED BY THE CITY IN THE
RECENT PAST ESTABLISHING D1 AND
D2 ZONES IT SEEKS TO DO VIA APD
WHAT THE ESTABLISHED ZONING
WILL NOT ALLOW.
IF THIS PUDI PROJECT IS
PERMITTED TO GO FORWARD IT WILL
MAKE A MOCKERY OF AND
DEMOLISHED ZONING REGULATIONS
STUDIED, NEGOTIATED AND VOTED
ON BY THE CITY COUNCIL AND OPEN
UP THE WHOLE AREA SOUTH
OF WILLER TO FAIRLY RESTRICTED
DEVELOPMENT IGNORING THE CITY
MASTER PLAN AND CENTRAL AREA
PLANS FOR THIS IS NOT HOW CITY
PLANNING IS OR SHOULD BE DONE
NOR SHOULD IN ARBOR BE REMADE
THROUGH SINGLE SITE SPOT ZONING
LIKE THIS.
THIS IS A PRECISELY THE ONLY
PURPOSE OF THIS REQUEST FOR A
PUDI FOR THIS PROJECT WHICH IS
TO CIRCUMVENT THE EXISTING
ZONING OF THIS SITE AND
ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION OF THIS
PROJECT IS CERTAIN TO DEGRADE
AND EVEN KILL SOME OF THE
LANDMARK TREES TO ITS NORTH AT
THE FOREST PLAZA HARTMANS
THROUGH DAMAGE TO THE ROOT
SYSTEMS AND BLOCKING THE SUN
DURING LARGE PORTIONS OF THE
DAY.
THIS IS PRECISELY WHAT HAPPENED
WITH THE BUILDING FOUNDRY LOFTS
ON RUN AT DIVISION TO THE OLD
TREES TO ITS NORTH.
>> I STRONGLY URGE YOU TO
REJECT THIS PUDI PROPOSAL THAT
IS IN TOTAL VIOLATION OF THE
ZONING AND OF THE PURPOSES
OF THE PLAN.
UNION DEVELOPMENT'S APPROVAL
ONLY OPEN WAY FOR SUCH PUDI
PROPOSAL SCUSE ME PUPPYHOOD
PROPOSALS IN THE OFFER IS ZONED
AREA BEING BETWEEN WILLOTT HILL
AND BEYOND AND LASTLY DO WE
ACTUALLY REALLY NEED ANOTHER
GROUND FLOOR CAFE AS A PUBLIC
BENEFIT?
IT REALLY SEEMS ABSURD.
THANK THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JENNIFER BIER'S 722
SOUTH FOREST.
I'M THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
BETA ADA CORPORATION WHICH OWNS
AND OPERATES A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT OWNS AND
OPERATES THE SORORITY HOUSE AT
722 S POOREST AL-FADL HIGH,
WHICH IS DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
STREET FROM THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT.
I'M HERE TO REPRESENT THE
OWNERS OF THIS MULTITENANT
SORORITY HOUSE AS WELL AS OUR
CURRENT AND FUTURE RESIDENTS
WHICH INCLUDE ACTIVE MEMBERS
OF THE SORORITY AS WELL AS A
LIVE IN HOUSE DIRECTOR THAT IS
EMPLOYED BY OUR ORGANIZATION.
OUR ORGANIZATION IS OWNED THIS
HOME SINCE 1933 AND WE HAVE
CONTINUED TO PROVIDE HOUSING
FOR COLLEGIATE COLLEGIATE
MEMBERS ALL OF THESE YEARS WE
ARE PROUD OF OUR HOUSE AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SURROUNDING OUR
HOUSE.
WE STRIVE TO MAINTAIN THE
HISTORIC ARCHITECTURE AND
PROVIDE A WARM AND WELCOMING
ENVIRONMENT TO OUR RESIDENTS
AND OUR GUESTS.
WE CONTINUOUSLY INVEST IN
MAINTAINING THIS OLDER HOME
VERY OLD HOME BOTH STRUCTURALLY
AS WELL AS ESTHETICALLY AND ARE
COMMITTED TO CONTINUING THE
UPKEEP TO ATTRACT FUTURE
MEMBERS TO OUR ORGANIZATION.
I ACTUALLY LIVED IN THIS HOME
IN THE NINETIES AND YOU KNOW,
LOVE LOVE THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
LOVE WHAT IT HAS TO OFFER VERY
SAFE AND WELCOMING.
OUR BOARD IS CONCERNED ABOUT
THIS PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT AND
WE STRONGLY OPPOSE MANY ASPECTS
OF THE PROPOSAL AND I'D LIKE TO
SHARE THOSE CONCERNS.
OUR MAIN CONCERNS ARE WITH
REGARD TO THE HEIGHT AND
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING.
IT'S SO MUCH BIGGER THAN WHAT
IS THERE RIGHT NOW AND SEEMS
OVERPOWERING TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THE SHADING
THAT IT WILL CREATE ON OUR
PROPERTY AS WELL AS THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND ANY KIND
OF URBAN DESERT EFFECT IT MIGHT
HAVE AS THE GLASS REFLECTS THE
SUNSHINE DURING THE WARMER
WEATHER.
AND WHAT ABOUT THE WIND TUNNEL
AROUND THE AREA AND THE EFFECT
IN THE COLDER MONTHS OF THE
YEAR?
>> WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT WHAT IT
WILL HOW WILL IMPACT OUR
LANDSCAPING.
WE ACTUALLY HAD PLANS THIS
SUMMER TO UPDATE PLANT
ADDITIONAL PLANTING MATERIALS,
PLANT ADDITIONAL TREES AND IT'S
ALL ON HOLD NOW UNTIL WE KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THIS
BUILDING.
WE HAVE CONCERNS ALSO OBVIOUSLY
WITH THE IMPACT OF CONSTRUCTION
OF THIS FACILITY AND IN WHAT IT
MEANS TO TRASH REMOVAL WATER
AND SEWER AND HOW LONG THAT
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE AND HOW IT
WILL IMPACT OUR STUDENT
RESIDENTS DURING THE SCHOOL
YEAR.
WE'RE VERY WORRIED ABOUT THE
COMMON SPACE AT THE TOP OF THE
BUILDING.
THE ROOFTOP FACILITIES APPEAR
TO HAVE, YOU KNOW, AN AREA A
COMMON AREA FOR PEOPLE TO HANG
OUT IN AND
WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT
NOISE IMPLICATIONS AND PARTIES
AND THINGS THAT COULD HAPPEN IN
THE EVENING HOURS AND AGAIN IN
A RESIDENTIAL AREA.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION?
>> HEY, MY NAME IS ELEANOR
LYNN.
I LIVE AT THIRTEEN TWENTY ONE
FOREST COURT ONE BLOCK AWAY
FROM THE PROPOSED BUILDING.
I'M ADAMANTLY OPPOSED TO IT AND
I URGE ALL OF YOU TO VOTE
AGAINST IT THIS PROJECT WOULD
BE FIVE TIMES TALLER THAN THE
CURRENT CITY ZONING LAWS AND
WOULD CONTAIN MORE THAN NINE
TIMES AS MANY UNITS.
THE SCALE IS NOT AT ALL
APPROPRIATE FOR ITS
SURROUNDINGS WHICH ARE ALMOST
ALL TWO AND THREE STORY
BUILDINGS.
THE CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT
STAFF HAS TWICE RECOMMENDED
REJECTION OF THIS PLAN,
ALTHOUGH THE DEVELOPERS CLAIM
THAT THEY WILL CONSTRUCT A
GREEN BUILDING.
THE PROPOSED SOLAR PANELS WOULD
ONLY PROVIDE THREE PERCENT
OF THE NEEDED ENERGY.
IT WOULD BE FUELED BY
COAL BURNING ELECTRIC PLANT IN
MONROE.
THE CITY'S OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION DOES NOT SUPPORT
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT.
THE DEVELOPERS REPEAT
REPEATEDLY REFER TO THE CITY'S
OUTDATED MASTER PLAN.
THIS IS PRESUMPTUOUS OF THEM
AND HIGHLY OFFENSIVE TO ME.
THE CITY GOVERNMENT WITH INPUT
FROM CITIZENS AND ELECTED
OFFICIALS IS CHARGED WITH
WRITING AND REVISING THE MASTER
PLAN AS WE SEE FIT, DEVELOPERS
MUST PETITION US FOR APPROVAL
NOT THE OTHER WAY AROUND.
THE DEVELOPERS SAY THEY WOULD
PAY INTO THE CITY'S AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND IF THEY WANT TO
SUPPORT AFFORDABLE HOUSING THEY
SHOULD BUILD IT THEMSELVES.
DITHER WITH THIS PROJECT,
REDUCE THE PRICE OF RENT
ELSEWHERE.
IN MY EXPERIENCE LANDLORDS
OF TWO STOREY HOUSES RAISE
THEIR RENTS TO EXCEED THOSE
OF THE HIGH RISE BUILDINGS
BECAUSE THEY CONSIDER THEIR
PROPERTIES MORE DESIRABLE AND
THEY GET WHAT THEY ASK FOR.
THE DEVELOPERS ALSO CLAIM THAT
THIS PROJECT WILL HELP CURTAIL
URBAN SPRAWL THAT IS A TOTAL
FICTION THE PEOPLE WHO WANT
HOUSING IN NEW BUILDINGS AT THE
EDGE OF TOWN ARE A DIFFERENT
MARKET MOSTLY FAMILIES WITH
CHILDREN THEN THOSE WHO MIGHT
RENT APARTMENTS IN THIS PROJECT
U OF M UNDERGRADUATES.
WHAT'S MORE, THE DEVELOPER IS
CLAIMED THERE WOULD BE NO
IMPACT OF THIS PROJECT ON OLDER
PEOPLE.
THAT IS ALSO NOT TRUE.
THE NEIGHBORHOOD SOUTH OF THE U
OF M CAMPUS HAS A CONSIDERABLE
NUMBER OF OLDER ADULTS, MANY
OF WHOM MADE THEIR HOUSING
DECISIONS WHEN IT WAS STILL
POSSIBLE TO LIVE HERE ON THE
SALARY ONE COULD EARN AT A
NEARBY JOB.
MANY HOPE TO AGE IN PLACE IN A
WALKABLE LOCATION TO SUPPORT
THEIR GOOD HEALTH AND NOT BE
DISPLACED BY NEW CONSTRUCTION.
THE ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM IS
GREED.
>> DEVELOPERS BRAG TOESTORS
ABOUT THEIR PROFITS.
THIS PROJECT IS NOT SUPPORTED
BY THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND I URGE
YOU TO VOTE AGAINST IT.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO MY NAME IS LINDA
JURGEN'S.
I'M A MEMBER OF ALPHA DELTA PI
SORORITY WHICH OWNS THE HOUSE
SEVEN TWENTY TWO SOUTH FOREST.
WE'VE OWNED THE HOUSE SINCE
NINETEEN THIRTY THREE.
WE HAVE SUBMITTED A LETTER TO
YOU STATING SOME SPECIFIC
REASONS WHY WE OPPOSE THIS
PROJECT.
HOPEFULLY YOU HAVE ALL BEEN
ABLE TO READ THAT LETTER BUT
I'M JUST GOING TO HIGHLIGHT A
FEW OF THEM THE NEIGHBORHOOD IN
WHICH OUR HOUSE SITS IS
PRIMARILY MADE UP OF HOUSES AND
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS IS
VERY MUCH A TYPICAL MIDWEST
NEIGHBORHOOD AS TYPICAL MIDWEST
NEIGHBORHOOD FEEL MOST OF THE
LOTS IN THE AREA HAVE GRASS,
TREES AND LANDSCAPING.
CATTY CORNER FROM US IS A SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDING WITH A
BEAUTIFUL GRASSY LAWN AND A
CIRCULAR DRIVE THE ADDITION
OF ELEVEN OR TWELVE STOREY
BUILDING DIRECTLY ACROSS FROM
US WILL NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD FEEL OF THE AREA.
THE INCREASE IN TRAFFIC
PARTICULARLY WITH A LIMITED
PARKING SPACES FOR THIS
BUILDING WILL NEGATIVELY IMPACT
ALL RESIDENTS OF THE AREA.
WE ARE ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
ON OUR HOUSE.
THIS BUILDING MAY NEGATIVELY
IMPACT OUR LANDSCAPING OR GREEN
SPACE EITHER DUE TO THE LACK
OF SUNLIGHT OR DUE TO THE GLARE
FROM THE BUILDING.
WE ARE ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT THE
EFFECTS FROM THE WIND.
WE ARE PARTICULARLY CONCERNED
ABOUT ANY WIND TUNNEL EFFECT
PARTICULARLY IF ANOTHER
PROPOSED PROJECT IS DIRECTLY
BEHIND US FOR THESE REASONS
THAT I HAVE MENTIONED TODAY
PLUS THOSE IN OUR LETTER AND
THOSE STATED BY JENNIFER WHO
CAME BEFORE ME WE URGE YOU TO
REJECT THE PLANS FOR THIS HIGH
RISE OR ANY OTHER HIGH RISE IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
WOULD ANYBODY LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THIS PROJECT WHOSE PRESENT
HELLO ADAM GOODMAN FOUR HUNDRED
VIRGINIA AVENUE AGAIN I THINK
THIS IS A GREAT PROJECT.
I THINK THAT IT CONTRIBUTES
GREATLY TO MANY OF THE CITY'S
GOALS THAT I MENTIONED EARLIER.
IT WOULD PROVIDE A LOT OF BADLY
NEEDED HOUSING DIRECTLY AND WE
NEED HOUSING AT ALL INCOME
LEVELS INCLUDING BOTH MARKET
RATE AND AFFORDABLE.
SO IT WOULD PROVIDE MARKET RATE
HOUSING DIRECTLY AND PROVIDE,
AS MR. KOWALSKI SAID, FOUR
POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
INTO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND.
I HAVEN'T LOOKED AT THE NUMBERS
IN A BIT TO THIS MIGHT BE OFF
BUT IF I REMEMBER CORRECTLY
THAT'S ABOUT TWO THIRDS OF WHAT
ARE AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILLAGE
RAISES FROM THE ENTIRE CITY IN
AN ENTIRE YEAR.
THAT'S HUGE.
AND COUNCIL MEMBER JUST HEARD
ME SAY THIS LAST NIGHT COSTS
ARE COST OF CONSTRUCTION ARE
INCREASING RAPIDLY SO THE
MILEAGE IS NOT ENOUGH TO
ACHIEVE TO TO SUCCESSFULLY
BUILD OFF THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS THAT THE
CITY IS PLANNING.
WE NEED MORE AND THIS SHOULD GO
A LONG WAY.
AND YOU KNOW THIS COMMISSION WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT THIS AS WELL
HAS BEEN SEEKING TO GET FULLY
ELECTRIC DEVELOPMENTS AND THIS
IS ONE AND IT HAS OTHER
SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY ELEMENTS
ON TOP OF THAT.
SO SEEMS GREAT, RIGHT?
BUT WE HAVE THIS DENIAL
RECOMMENDATION AND FRANKLY I
FOUND THIS DISAPPOINTING AND
CONCERNING AGAIN WHERE IS OUR
SENSE OF URGENCY IN TRYING TO
ADDRESS THE PROBLEMS FACING OUR
CITY AND OUR REGION?
SO I SORT OF TOOK TWO SPECIFIC
THINGS AWAY FROM THAT.
ONE WAS, YOU KNOW, THE BUILDING
IS TOO BIG OR TOO TALL.
I TOOK A WALK DOWN SOUTH FOREST
YESTERDAY AND I DON'T REALLY
NOTICE A HUGE DIFFERENCE IN
CHARACTER OR CONTEXT AND A
COUPLE HUNDRED FEET BETWEEN
THIS SITE AND THE AREA ZONED
DOWNTOWN ZONING.
IT'S KIND OF AN ODD MISMATCH
THINGS THERE ARE SOME
ATTRACTIVE BUILDINGS INCLUDING
SOME OF THE ONES THAT OTHER
COMMITTERS HAVE TALKED ABOUT.
BUT THERE'S A LOT THAT'S NOT
THERE'S A LOT OF SURFACE
PARKING LOT I DON'T REALLY
CONSIDER THE AREA TAKEN AS A
WHOLE THAT ATTRACTIVE AND
ESPECIALLY NOT THE BUILDING
CURRENTLY ON 720 ONE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE IMPROVED BY
A NEW BUILDING.
NOW I REALIZE THIS IS JUST A
PERSONAL ESTHETIC OPINION BUT I
THINK SO IS SAYING THE BUILDING
IS TOO BIG OR TOO TALL.
CITIES OFTEN HAVE DIFFERENT
SIZED BUILDINGS, CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO ONE ANOTHER AND I
ALSO DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
DISTINCTION BETWEEN DENSITY AND
MASS.
THESE ARE RATHER RELATED
CONCEPTS I THINK AND THEN ALSO
IT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE ENOUGH.
YOU KNOW I LOVE THE FOLKS IN
NYC BUT THIS SEEMS LIKE A BIG
EXERCISE IN GOALPOST MOVING AND
TECHNICALLY YES, THIS IS A
PRETTY YOU DO HAVE THE POWER TO
ASK FOR WHATEVER YOU WANT.
BUT YOU KNOW, I THINK THIS IS
ALREADY ABOVE AND BEYOND WHAT
YOU WERE ASKING FOR FOR MOST
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS AND SO
MOVING THE GOALPOSTS AT THIS
POINT JUST SEEMS
COUNTERPRODUCTIVE AT BEST.
SO I THINK IT'S THE RIGHT
PROJECT AND THE RIGHT PLACE.
I THINK THE PETITIONER IS
EXACTLY RIGHT THAT THE CURRENT
ZONING ISN'T SERVING US WELL
AND SO I HOPE WE WILL SEE A
STRONG SUPPORT FROM THE
COMMISSION TONIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
THOUGH?
>> SCOTTRADE TRUDEAU FIVE SIX
NORTH MAIN WE ARE READING THE
SAME SCRIPT THAT WE'VE BEEN
READING FOR ONE HUNDRED YEARS
OR THEREABOUTS.
THE PARCEL IMMEDIATELY NEXT
DOOR TO THIS ONE THE FORREST
PLAZA WAS ORIGINALLY PROPOSED
TO BE A NINE STOREY LUXURY
APARTMENT BUILDING AND THE
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD REACTED
NEGATIVELY TO SUCH A LARGE
STRUCTURE BEING BUILT
EVENTUALLY FORCE TO THE
DEVELOPER TO CUT FOUR STORIES
OFF THE TOP AND PUSH IT TO THE
BACK OF THE LOT SO NOBODY COULD
SEE IT.
I THINK THAT'S A HANDSOME
BUILDING AND I THINK THEY'VE
BUILT A BUILDING AS ORIGINALLY
PROPOSED WOULD HAVE BEEN
HANDSOME AND A LOVELY ASSET TO
THE STREET IF IT HAD BEEN BUILT
AS PROPOSED IN THE NINETEEN
THIRTIES IT WOULD BE A NINE
STOREY BUILDING BEING PROPOSED
NEXT TO IT LIKE TWELVE STOREY
BUILDING BEING PROPOSED NEXT TO
A NINE STOREY BUILDING AND IT
WOULDN'T BE SO FAR OUT
OF CONTEXT.
WE'VE GONE THROUGH WAVES
OF THIS KIND OF BACK AND FORTH
ALLOWING A LITTLE BIT MORE TO
BE BUILT AND THEN REACTING
AGAINST IT AND CONSTRAINING
GROWTH.
FOR MOST OF THE LAST HUNDRED
YEARS WE'VE USED OTHER TOOLS
AVAILABLE TO US TO LIMIT THE
ABILITY TO DEVELOP HOUSING AND
MEET THE NEEDS.
THIS HAS BEEN ONE HUNDRED YEARS
A DESIRABLE PLACE FOR A LOT
OF PEOPLE WHO WANT TO LIVE
CLOSE TO CAMPUS AND WILL
CONTINUE TO BE THE ALTERNATIVE
IF WE DECIDE THIS LEVEL
OF DENSITY IS NOT APPROPRIATE.
IS THAT
PEOPLE WILL MOVE
FURTHER OUT AND TO DISAGREE
WITH THE PREVIOUS COMMENTER WHO
SUGGESTED THAT THAT'S NOT HOW
THE MARKET WORKS.
THAT OF COURSE IS HOW THE
MARKET WORKS.
NOT ONLY DOES HAVING STUDENTS
GIVING STUDENTS MORE OPTIONS
LIVE CLOSER TO CAMPUS, FREE UP
OTHER HOUSING THAT THOSE
STUDENTS WOULD OTHERWISE CHOOSE
TO LIVE IN AS CLOSE AS POSSIBLE
TO CAMPUS WE'VE ALREADY SEEN
DEVELOPERS BUILD HOUSING
TARGETED TO THE STUDENT MARKET
FAR FROM CAMPUS REQUIRING THEM
TO TRAVEL IN CAR OR IN SHUTTLES
WITH THE THE VERY THE THE
TRINITIES PROJECT ON THE NORTH
SIDE AND I FULLY EXPECT TO THAT
IF WE CONTINUE WITH OUR CURRENT
MOMENTUM OF LIMITING THE
ABILITY OF ANY KIND OF PROJECT
FOR STUDENT HOUSING TO PENCIL
DOWNTOWN AND NOW LIMITING THE
ABILITY OF DEVELOPERS WHO WANT
TO BUILD HOUSING NEAR CAMPUS
USING OTHER STRATEGIES BECAUSE
WE HAVE BASICALLY CUT OFF THE
ABILITY TO DO IT ANYWHERE ELSE.
WE'LL SEE MORE OF THE ONES AND
WE'LL HAVE STUDENTS SHUTTLING
IN TO CAMPUS ON BUSSES BECAUSE
THE BEST OPTION THEY CAN HAVE
AVAILABLE OR DRIVING IN AND
CAUSING ALL THOSE PROBLEMS.
SO I THINK WE HAVE TO LIVE WITH
THE SITUATION WE ARE IN.
>> WE'VE CREATED SOME OF THESE
PROBLEMS OURSELVES SO SO WE
HAVE TO MAKE THE DECISION LIKE
ARE WE WILLING TO ACCEPT AS
CLOSE TO CAMPUS OR ARE WE NOT?
AND IF WE'RE NOT WE'RE GOING TO
LIKE THAT'S MY PREDICTION
EXACTLY WHAT WE'LL SEE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> I THE PANIC BUTTON SORRY
THAT WAS I DIDN'T MEAN TO CALL
THE POLICE.
I KNEW MARGARET
PLEASE.
MY NAME IS JOHN MARKOVITCH.
I'M THE ONE I BUILT YOU EPSILON
FRATERNITY THIRTEEN THIRTY ONE
HILL STREET OUR HOUSE WAS BUILT
IN NINETEEN THREE ALBERT KHAN
BUILT THE HOUSE ITS HISTORIC
AND WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF APARTMENTS JUST ADJACENT TO
OUR OUR HOUSE IS LOCATED BUT
THERE ARE OF REASONABLE SIZE SO
THEY FIT WELL WITHIN THE
ENVIRONMENT THAT WE HAVE.
I FEEL THAT THIS PROJECT IS
JUST TOO IMMENSE COMPARED TO
THE FOOTPRINT OF WHAT WE HAVE
IN THAT PARTICULAR AREA ON THE
STREET.
LIKE I SAID, WE'RE NOT OPPOSED
TO APARTMENTS.
WE HAVE ONE WE SHARE DRIVEWAY
WITH ONE THAT'S RIGHT NEXT DOOR
TO OUR PROPERTY AND THAT ALLOWS
OUR GUYS TO DRIVE OUT AND TURN
OUT TO FOREST STREET AND BE
RIGHT IN THAT AREA.
SO I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT YOU
OPPOSE THIS PROJECT BASED ON
THE SIZE OF THE PROJECT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK PEOPLE IN LINE?
MADAM CHAIR, THERE ARE SIX
PEOPLE WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
THIS EVENING.
>> THE FIRST CALLER IS ADAM
YANKOVICH.
HI.
THIS IS ADAM DISCOVERY.
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS
STRIDE LOOKING THIS PROPOSAL
I'M CONFUSED WHY STAFF IS
RECOMMENDING DENIAL.
IT IS APPROPRIATE FOR THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND HAS A
NUMBER OF BENEFITS FOR OUR
CITY.
THIS BUILDING WOULD BE WITHIN A
COUPLE BLOCKS OF SEVERAL OTHER
BUILDINGS OF COMPARABLE HEIGHT
AND DENSITY IN AN AREA
DOMINATED BY STUDENT HOUSING.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS WITH
HIGH DEMAND FOR HOUSING AND NOT
ENOUGH SUPPLY.
THIS WOULD ADD A SIGNIFICANT
NUMBER OF UNITS TO OUR LOCAL
HOUSING SUPPLY.
THAT IN ITSELF IS A BENEFIT TO
OUR CITY.
WE ARE ALSO IN A CLIMATE CRISIS
AND AGAIN THIS DEVELOPMENT
TAKES A NUMBER OF BOXES.
THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER
OF DISCUSSIONS AROUND
ENCOURAGING ELECTRIFY AND OR
EVEN BANNING NATURAL GAS.
WELL THIS DEVELOPMENT IS FULLY
ELECTRIC.
THEY ARE INSTALLING SOLAR
PANELS SO THAT SOME OF THE
ENERGY NEEDS WILL BE GENERATED
ON SITE.
THEY ARE INCREASING THE
EFFICIENCY OF THE ENVELOPE WITH
EXTRA INSULATION TO ELIMINATE
THERMAL BRIDGIT ALL OF THESE
ARE GREAT AND SEEM TO BE ABOVE
AND BEYOND WHAT WE REQUIRE.
ANOTHER BENEFIT THE LOCATION IS
EASILY WALKABLE TO CAMPUS AND
TO LOCAL BUSINESSES THAT ARE
FREQUENTED BY STUDENTS.
IT'S RIGHT IN THE THICK
OF THINGS IN TERMS OF STUDENT
LIVING SO RESIDENTS WILL LIKELY
NOT NEED TO DRIVE MUCH.
THIS IS GREAT BECAUSE WE'RE
TRYING TO CUT VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED IN HALF.
>> THIS BENEFITS OUR VISION
ZERO GOALS AS WELL AS OUR TWO
ZERO GOALS.
FURTHERMORE, THIS BUILDING
WOULD PAY FOUR POINT SEVEN
MILLION INTO OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND WHICH JENNIFER ON
THE HOUSING COMMISSION CAN
LEVERAGE INTO MORE WONDERFUL
DEVELOPMENTS LIKE IN TWENTY ONE
CATHERINE THE OLD WILLOTT 5TH
AND WILLIAM AND OTHER PROJECTS
COMING DOWN THE PIKE.
THESE BENEFITS TO THE CITY
SEEMED SUBSTANTIAL TO ME HENCE
MY CONFUSION.
THIS SEEMS TO CHECK ALL THE
BOXES.
>> PLEASE APPROVE THIS PROJECT
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT HANDBRAKES IS COLOR
WITH NO ENDING IN FIVE NINE
NINE YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
SPEAK YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO
UNMUTED
.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS ROSEWORTHY
I LIVE AT FIVE THREE ONE SNYDER
AVENUE.
I DON'T HAVE SUPER DETAILED
COMMENT ON IT BUT I THINK THIS
IS A GREAT PROJECT ABSOLUTELY
PATH.
IT MAY NOT FIT ALL OF THE
IMMEDIATE SURROUNDINGS AND USES
BUT IT DOES FIT THE LAND USES
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD GIVEN ITS
PROXIMITY TO CAMPUS AND SOUTH
UNIVERSITY, I'D LIKE TO POINT
OUT THAT THERE IS LITERALLY A
PARKING GARAGE A SIMILAR HEIGHT
APPROXIMATELY FIVE OR ONE
HUNDRED FEET AWAY.
FIVE HUNDRED AS A FORMER
STUDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, I HAVE TO REMIND
EVERYONE THAT WE ARE IN A
HOUSING CRISIS AND HOMES ARE
DESPERATELY NEEDED IN THIS
SPECIFIC AREA WITH THIS
PROXIMITY TO CAMPUS THERE
AREN'T TOO MANY PLACES TO BUILD
NEAR CAMPUS AND WE SHOULD TAKE
EVERY OPPORTUNITY PERFECT OR
NOT.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT'S THANK YOU.
THE NEXT CALLER IS DANIEL ADAMS
.
YOU PERMISSION TO SPEAK?
GOOD EVENING DAN ADAMS TEN
SIXTEEN DANIEL STREET.
I WANT TO SAY THAT I'M
SURPRISED BY SOME OF THE
OPPOSITION COMMENTS TO THIS
PROJECT BUT I I'VE ENGAGED IN
AN AREA HOUSING POLITICS FOR
TOO LONG TO BE SURPRISED.
A LOT OF THE COMMENTS WE'VE
HEARD TONIGHT ARE PRETTY
SIMILAR TO THE COMMENTS THAT WE
HEAR EVERY TIME A PROJECT LIKE
THIS IS IN PART OF PLANNING OR
COUNCIL.
I WAS SURPRISED THAT I WAS
SURPRISED TO SEE THE STAFF
REPORT AND I WANT TO ADDRESS
BECAUSE I THINK OTHERS HAVE
ADDRESSED ASPECTS OF IT.
>> BUT I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
FINDING THAT, YOU KNOW, THIS
WOULD BE OUT OF CHARACTER WITH
THE SURROUNDING DISTRICT IN THE
ADJACENT HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOOD.
I WAS I WENT TO UNDERGRAD AT U
OF M AND I KNOW THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD REALLY WELL.
ANYBODY INCLINED TO TAKE THESE
COMMENTS AND THESE OBJECTIONS
TO THIS DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIONS
GROUNDED IN NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER OR PARTYING OR
SUNLIGHT REALLY NEEDS TO GO
WALK THIS NEIGHBORHOOD ON A
FRIDAY OR SATURDAY NIGHT.
NOT ONLY IS THIS NEIGHBOR NOT
ONLY DOES THIS DEVELOPMENT
SMACK OUT AND ONE OF THE
DENSEST CONCENTRATIONS
OF STUDENT HOUSING IN THE CITY
,NOT ONLY IS IT NEXT TO OR
ADJACENT TO OR NEAR A NUMBER
OF THE MOST NOTORIOUSLY LOUD
NOTORIOUSLY PARTY MOTIVATED
GROUPS SORORITIES OPPORTUNITIES
BUT THIS IS RIGHT NEXT TO
RICKS.
THIS IS RIGHT NEXT TO THE FRONT
CHARLY'S I SORT OF CAN'T HELP
BUT CHUCKLE AT THE NOTION THAT
WE CAN'T BUILD A DENSE BUILDING
NEXT TO RICK AMERICAN CAFE.
RIGHT.
IF WE REJECT A PROJECT LIKE
THIS ON NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER
GROUNDS WE MAY NOT BE FULLY
CAPABLE OF ADDRESSING OUR
HOUSING CRISIS.
THAT JUST ISN'T GOING TO GET IT
DONE.
WE'VE GOT TO BE MORE AGGRESSIVE
IN THIS.
I UNDERSTAND WHERE STAFF IS
COMING FROM.
I UNDERSTAND THEIR POINT
OF VIEW BUT I'M ASKING PLANNING
TONIGHT TO TO REJECT THAT
RECOMMENDATION TO APPROVE THIS
PROJECT.
WE NEED HOUSING AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER CONCERNS
HERE ARE JUST RIDICULOUS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK THANK YOU FOR THE NEXT
CALLER IS ELLEN RAMSBURG.
YOU'VE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
?
>> I WILL NOTE THAT A FEW MORE
PEOPLE ADDED THEMSELVES TO THE
QUEUE THERE FIVE HANDS RAISED
CURRENTLY ON REMSBERG.
YOU CAN YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
SPEAK?
OK, SORRY.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
REALLY DID APPRECIATE THE STAFF
REPORT AND THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABLE REPORT AND THEY
ARE SUGGESTING THIS PROPOSAL
WILL BE DENIED BECAUSE THEY
TOOK A BROADER LOOK AT THE AT
THE OBJECTIVES THAT APPLY TO
THIS SITE AND I'LL STATE THEM
ONE THAT TO ENSURE THAT THESE
PROJECTS IN AREAS BOTH
CONTRIBUTE TO DOWNTOWN AND HELP
BUFFER ESTABLISHED
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS IS AN ESTABLISHED
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THERE SHOULD BE BUFFERING
BETWEEN BUILDING OF THIS SIZE
AND ADJACENT PROPERTIES.
THE OTHER POINT I WANT TO
EMPHASIZE IS THAT TO REVIEW AND
REVISE THE KADIATOU REGULATIONS
TO BETTER ACHIEVE DEVELOPMENT
OF APPROPRIATE SCALE AND
CHARACTER AND TO PREVENT THE
CIRCUMSTANCE THE NOTION
OF ZONING ORDINANCES MERELY FOR
CONVENIENCE IF IT IS REALLY AS
A CITIZEN IT'S REALLY
DISCOURAGING TO HEAR COMMENTS
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
AFTER THE FEBRUARY TY THIRD
MEETING.
IT'S AS IF YOU'RE ONLY
CONSIDERING DENSITY AS A GOAL
AND THERE ARE OTHER
CONSIDERATIONS THAT BE THAT
SHOULD BE TAKEN INTO INTO
CONSIDERATION EXISTING ZONING,
THE PROGRESS, THE PROCESS IT
WAS USED TO PLAN FOR THOSE
ZONINGS.
THE FACT THAT PROPOSALS DON'T
MEET THE QUALIFICATIONS OF A
KUDI, THE IMPACT ON CHILD CARE
FACILITIES, THE IMPACT ON
EXISTING
STRUCTURES THOSE ARE
ALL PART OF MAKING THIS
DECISION TO CITIZEN AND A
NEIGHBOR.
THE IT'S SEEMS THAT DENSITY IS
THE ONLY GOAL AND THERE ARE
JUST TOO MANY OTHER
CONSIDERATIONS THAT SHOULD BE
TAKEN.
WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
CONFIDENCE IN PLANNING MEASURES
TO CONSIDER THE IMPACT ON THE
EXISTING STRUCTURES AROUND WHAT
AN ADDITION OF THIS SCALE DOES
TO THOSE PROPERTIES ON WHETHER
IT IMPROVES THE SUSTAINABILITY
OF SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AS
WELL AS ITS OWN, WHETHER IT
ADDRESSES REALLY THE NEED FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR JUST
PUSHES UP THE RATES FOR NEARBY
PROPERTIES.
TAKING A HARD LOOK AT A
PROPOSAL IN VIEW OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SHOULD BE
REQUIRED NOT ONLY TO ADD
DENSITY BUT TO ENSURE THAT THE
DEVELOPMENTS DON'T HAVE A
NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD.
THANK YOU FOR HEARING MY
COMMENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN NINE FIVE FIVE.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
CAN PRESS STAR SECOND EVENING
THIS IS KIRK.
>> GOOD EVENING KIRK WESTFALL
THIRTY FIVE FIVE CHARTER PLANE.
I JUST WANT TO SHARE MY STRONG
SUPPORT FOR THIS PROJECT.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY AN
EXCITING BUILDING AND HONESTLY
A GLIMPSE OF WHAT WE'RE GOING
TO BE SEEING IN THE FUTURE.
MY ONLY NITPICKED ABOUT IT IF
CHANGES DO GET MADE IS THAT YOU
GET RID OF THE STRANGE SUBURBAN
FRONT SET BACK AND AS WELL AS
THE PARKING BECAUSE CLEARLY
IT'S NOT VERY NEEDED IN THIS
DISTRICT.
I THINK THE COMMUNITY BENEFITS
ARE SUPER COMPELLING THAT HAS
BEEN NOTED BEFORE.
THE SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
MIGHT BE THE HIGHEST OF ANY
LARGE BUILDING THAT'S BEEN
BUILT IN THE CITY THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION.
YES IT'S REQUIRED BUT THE SCALE
OF IT IS REALLY COMPELLING AND
I WOULD IMAGINE UNMATCHED BY
ANY OTHER PROJECT AND I THINK
IT'S COMPLETELY APPROPRIATE FOR
PUDI BECAUSE NO ZONE CAN REALLY
EXACTLY THESE KINDS OF BENEFITS
AND CONTRIBUTIONS AND SORT
OF THE FUTURE TECHNOLOGY THAT
THE CITY IS LOOKING FOR OUT
OF OUT OF BUILDINGS.
SO YOU AND AGAIN THIS IS A IF
APPROVED THIS WOULD GO TO
COUNCIL I BELIEVE TO GET THE
ACTUAL REZONING CONSIDERED.
SO I THINK IN THAT RESPECT THAT
IT DESERVES ANOTHER HEARING AT
COUNCIL.
SO YOU KNOW, THESE ARE A
JUDGMENT CALL.
>> I WOULD JUST URGE YOU TO
CONSIDER THE CLIMATE IMPACTS
OF NOT BUILDING THIS BUILDING
AND ALSO THE CLIMATE BENEFITS
OF BUILDING THIS BUILDING AND
WHAT IS THE ACTUAL HARMS THAT
ARE BEING WEIGHED AGAINST THIS
BUILDING THAT THE NEIGHBORS ARE
DISCUSSING?
>> I THINK CHARACTER IS WORD
THAT IS NOT GOING TO IT WILL
CONTINUE NOT TO AGE WELL WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
DISCRIMINATING AGAINST
APARTMENTS AND I WOULD JUST
LIKE YOU TO CONSIDER WHERE THE
UNITS WILL GO AND HOW MANY
SMALLER PROJECTS WOULD HAVE TO
BE BUILT TO ACCUMULATE THIS
NUMBER OF HOUSING UNITS IN A
BADLY UNDERSERVED AREA OF THE
CITY.
THANKS A LOT FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU
.
>> OUR NEXT CALLER IS ERIC
SACAR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> HI, THIS IS ERIC ZECHER.
>> I MET TWO FOUR THREE FIVE
GREGORY STREET.
>> OK, WE CAN GO I WAS JUST
CALLING TO SAY THAT I SUPPORT
THIS PROJECT AND I HOPE THAT
YOU VOTE IN FAVOR OF IT.
LISTENED A LOT TO THE CALLERS
HERE FOR BOTH FOR AND AGAINST
THE PROJECT AND I THINK THAT
HAVING WALKED IN RIGHT THROUGH
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD, NOT A
NEIGHBORHOOD BUT I DO USE THIS
AREA QUITE A BIT BOTH WHEN I
WAS A STUDENT AND AS A FATHER
AND A NEW EMPLOYEE, MICHAEL,
GENERAL COMMENT IS IF NOT MORE
THAN WHERE I MEAN THE STUDENTS
THAT ARE LIVING IN STUDENT
HOUSING OR MORE AND AS A
PREVIOUS CALLER MENTIONED, IF
YOU DON'T BUILD LARGE STUDENT
DEVELOPMENTS ADJACENT TO CAMPUS
THIS IS SOMEWHERE WITHIN THE
CITY I WILL BE BUILDING THEM ON
SIDE THE FAR NORTH EAST WEST
SIDE OR STARTING TO GET
DEVELOPMENTS IN AREAS STUDENTS
HAVE TO DRIVE TO CAMPUS AND
THAT CERTAINLY DOESN'T MEET ANY
OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
WON'T RESULT IN THE
CONTRIBUTION TO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
THOSE PROBABLY WON'T GET ALL
THIS FROM THOSE REMARKABLE KIDS
STUDENTS THAT KIDS THAT ARE
GOING TO BE HERE WILL BE ABLE
TO WALK TO AND FROM THEIR JOBS
FROM CAMPUS.
IT'S VERY PROFITABLE.
>> IT'S MORE LIKELY THAT THOSE
FOLKS IN THIS AREA WHO FEEL
LIKE THEY HAVE A SENSE OF PLACE
ALREADY ARE THE FOLKS THAT LIVE
IN THE SMALL SQUARE AREA.
IT'S LOVELY THE FOLKS THAT IT
IS IT'S GREAT THAT THEY'RE ABLE
TO PROVIDE HOUSING FOR STUDENTS
BUT IT'S A DROP IN THE BUCKET
AS FAR THE DEMAND GOES IN THE
AREA.
>> THERE'S SO MUCH GREATER
DEMAND THAN WHAT'S BEING
CURRENTLY SERVED AS IS WE WANT
TO SERVE THIS POPULATION
STUDENTS TO BE CLOSE TO CAMPUS.
WE WANT THEM TO BE SAFE AND IN
THE SORTS.
SO I THINK THAT THIS PROJECT
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE ESPECIALLY
GIVEN EVERYTHING THAT THEY WANT
TO PUT FORWARD WHETHER THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CONTRIBUTION
SO ELECTRIC IT'S IT'S GREAT.
I THINK THAT IT SHOULD BE
APPROVED.
I HOPE YOU DO.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> UH, WE HAVE THREE MORE HANDS
IN THE Q AT THIS POINT.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS MEREDITH.
CAN YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO
SPEAK?
>> HI MY NAME IS MEREDITH KOHN.
I'M A RESIDENT OF THE FIFTH
WARD AT EIGHT ONE SEVEN PAMONA
ROAD AND I'M CALLING TO EXPRESS
MY SUPPORT FOR THE 721 SOUTH
FOREST PUDI REZONING AND SITE
PLAN.
WELL I RESPECT THE CITY'S
PLANNING STAFF AND HAVE READ
THEIR ANALYSIS.
I'M ASKING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO VOTE TO APPROVE
THE REZONING AND THE SITE PLAN
THIS PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT HAS
SEVERAL IMPORTANT BENEFITS FOR
THE CITY AND FOR ITS RESIDENTS
AND IT REPRESENTS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO PLAN FOR
THE CITY WE WANT RATHER THAN
BEING LIMITED BY THE
CONSTRAINTS OF THE PAST.
IF A HIGHLY DESIRABLE STUDENT
NEIGHBORHOOD ADJACENT TO CAMPUS
AND THE S UNIVERSITY COMMERCIAL
CORRIDOR IS SOMEHOW
INAPPROPRIATE FOR DENSER
DEVELOPMENT THEN THAT'S AN
INDICATION THAT THE CURRENT
ZONING OF THE SITE AND THE
CITY'S 14 YEAR OLD MASTER PLAN
ARE INSUFFICIENT TO MEET OUR
STATED GOALS OF ADDRESSING
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AND
CLIMATE CHANGE.
EVERYONE AGREES THAT WE NEED
MORE HOUSING HERE IN ANN ARBOR
SO LET'S BUILD IN EXACTLY THE
PLACE WHERE IT'S NEEDED AND
WANTED CLOSE TO SCHOOL JOBS AND
COMMUNITY AMENITIES AS PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS THE CHOICES YOU
MAKE WILL AFFECT THE COMMUNITY
FOR DECADES TO COME.
IF WE ARE TRULY IN A CLIMATE
EMERGENCY, IF WE TRULY WANT TO
MAKE AN ARBOR A MORE INCLUSIVE
AND AFFORDABLE PLACE TO LIVE,
THEN YOU WILL NEED TO PUSH
BEYOND THE STATUS QUO TO MAKE
BOLD CHOICES FOR A MORE
EQUITABLE FUTURE.
IN THE SPIRIT OF BEING BOLD, I
ASK YOU TO VOTE IN FAVOR OF THE
SEVEN TWENTY ONE S FOREST PUDI
REZONING AND SIGHT PLAN.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ALEX LOWER.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> HI THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN
FROM WARD THREE.
MY SON GENERALLY IN FAVOR
OF THIS VIDEO FOREST I THINK WE
SHOULD BE ASKING FOR MORE FIRST
LET'S JUST DISCUSS THE FRONT
AND REAR SETBACKS REDUCING
THESE SETBACKS TO BETTER FIT
THE CHARACTER OF A NEIGHBORHOOD
AS FAR AS WE SEE WITH THE
LANDMARK APARTMENTS AND THE
FOREST AVENUE PARKING WHICH
COME ALL THE WAY UP TO THE
SIDEWALK, WE'RE PROBABLY
ALLOWED ANOTHER 24 EXTRA UNITS
WAS ALSO ON THE SAME SPACE.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
SECOND, I'D LIKE TO DISCUSS
PARKING GIVEN THAT THE LOCATION
IS GOING TO HAVE CLEARLY
STUDENT ORIENTED RETAIL ON SITE
IS PARKING FOR TWELVE BICYCLE'S
FOR RETAIL CUSTOMERS GOING TO
BE SUFFICIENT PERHAPS WE SHOULD
GET SOME CLASS B PARKING BOTH
FOR RETAIL CUSTOMERS AND
OF COURSE THE EMPLOYEES ON SITE
.
MAYBE WE COULD CHANGE SOME
OF THOSE EXCESS OF CAR PARKING
SPOTS INTO AN ANTI BIKE
CHARGERS.
>> ONE OF THOSE SPOTS THAT
COULD BE USED TO CHARGE IT
DOESN'T EBANKS BUT I WANT YOU
TO ADD TO DISCUSS HEIGHT KNEES
GET SOME OF THOSE US THIS IS
SAID TO BE TWELVE HOURS AT LESS
THAN FIVE HUNDRED FEET AWAY.
>> LANDMARK APARTMENTS IS 14
FLOORS.
IT'S LESS THAN A MILE FROM
TOWER PLAZA WHICH IS
TWENTY SIX
FLOORS AT HIGH AND IT IS ZERO
POINT TWO MILES A WHOLE FOUR
MINUTE WALK FROM UNIVERSITY
TOWERS WHICH IS EIGHTEEN
PERCENT OF OUR CURRENT ZONING
DOESN'T ALLOW US TO BUILD A
BUILDING THAT'S LESS THAN HALF
THE HEIGHT OF A 50 YEAR OLD
APARTMENT TOWER THAT'S MORE
THAN A MILE FROM THERE.
I WOULD STRONGLY SHOW THE CITY
COUNCIL PLANNING COMMISSION TO
CONSIDER WHY CITY ZONING LAWS
ARE SO OUTDATED AND THAT THE
FACT THAT THIS DEVELOPMENT HAS
TO BE APPROVED AT ALL IS QUITE
FRANKLY LUDICROUS.
THIS DEVELOPMENT INCLUDES SO
MANY OF THE STATED
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS SET FORTH
BY THE CITY OF DENHA THE FACT
THAT ANYTHING BETTER BY WRIGHT
DEVELOPMENT SHOWS THAT THE CITY
ZONING LAWS AND COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN DON'T ALIGN WITH OUR
STATED GOALS AND DESPERATELY
NEED UPDATE AS A CITY WE NEED
TO DO SO MUCH BETTER AND
FRANKLY THIS IS THE BARE
MINIMUM.
>> I WOULD STRONGLY ENCOURAGE
YOU TO APPROVE THIS PUDI AND
USE IT AS A TEMPLATE FOR FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS.
>> THANK THANK YOU MADAM CHAIR.
AS WE HAVE BEEN LISTENING TO
THIS COLOR ANOTHER PERSON ADDED
THEM TO THE QUEUE AND THERE ARE
TWO PEOPLE IN LINE.
THE NEXT CALLER IS LUIS VASQUEZ
.
YOUR PERMISSION TO SPEAK TO
READINGS AND NO PLANNING
PERMISSION.
LET SKILLS AS IN IN UPPER LOWER
TOWN IN THE FIRST WARD NINE
ZERO NINE AND DRIVE I I'M GOING
TO BE VERY BRIEF.
I SUPPORT THIS PROJECT.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE YOU ALL
VOTE IN FAVOR OF IT.
IT MEETS MANY OF THE CRITERIA
SET FORTH IN ANN ARBOR SCHOOLS
AS HAS BEEN ITERATED BY
NUMEROUS CALLERS TONIGHT AND
SPEAKERS.
SO I'M GOING TO LEAVE IT AT
THAT.
I SUPPORT THIS PROJECT AND I
HOPE YOU VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THE LAST OF THIS EVENING IS AS
AC STRONGMAN.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
HI.
>> FIRST OF ALL, THANK YOU SO
MUCH TO PLANNING PERMISSION.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS NOT AN EASY
JOB AND YOU HAVE TO BALANCE
WHAT THE CITY WANTS VERSUS
LOCAL RESIDENTS VERSUS THE GOAL
STATED GOALS OF THE CITY.
I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
PARTY.
I'M ESPECIALLY STRUCK BY WHAT
SOME COMMENTERS HAVE SAID ABOUT
THE NEED FOR A NEARBY STUDENT
HOUSING.
I HAD STUDENTS LAST YEAR WHO
LIVED AT THE ONE AND REALLY
STRUGGLED TO GET TO CAMPUS,
SOME OF WHOM HAVE DECIDED TO
DRIVE TO CAMPUS BECAUSE THE
SHUTTLE WAS AND WAS
UNAVAILABLE.
WE KNOW THAT OUR STUDENTS NEED
HOUSING.
THEY WANT HOUSING CLOSE TO
CAMPUS THIS BUILDING IS NOT THE
ONLY ANSWER BUT ADDING MORE
HOUSING MEANS THAT STUDENTS ARE
GOING TO BE PAYING TWELVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS TO LIVE IN A
BASEMENT APARTMENT THAT HAS
MOLD IN IT THAT IS FLOODED THAT
DOESN'T HAVE A WORKING SMOKE
ALARM OR WHOSE HEAT GOES OUT IN
THE MIDDLE OF WINTER.
THERE'S A LOT THAT NEEDS TO BE
DONE.
THIS BUILDING NO ONE BUILDING
IS GOING TO SOLVE THE PROBLEM
BUT NOT BUILDING ANYTHING NEW
CERTAINLY ISN'T EITHER.
I'M SENSITIVE TO THE DESIRES
OF NEARBY CITIES AND OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS BUT I ALSO ECHO
WHAT OTHERS HAVE SAID WHICH IS
THAT RICKS IS RIGHT.
THERE ARE TONS OF TALL
BUILDINGS.
I LOOKED AT YOUR POCKET PARK
TODAY A NUMBER OF LARGE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS ARE WITHIN
SEVERAL BLOCKS.
ONE IS EVEN CLOSER TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SUPPORT THAN THE
PROPOSED BUILDING.
SO I DO HOPE THAT YOU SUGGEST
THAT YOU APPROVE HIS PLAN THAT
YOU SPEND IT ON TO COUNCIL AND
THAT IF YOU HAVE ASKED YOU'RE
GOING TO APPROVE THIS PLAN IF
IT'S ONE OR TWO FOR SHORTER SO
THAT THE SAME HEIGHT OF A
BUILDING TWO BLOCKS AWAY IF
THAT'S WHAT IT TAKES THEN I
THINK THAT'S FINE.
BUT TO SAY THAT IT DOESN'T AT
ALL THE CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AS SOMEONE WHO
WORKS AT THE AND WALKS THROUGH
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD JUST DOESN'T
STRIKE ME AS ACCURATE AGAIN.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
OK, I WILL READ THE MOTION AND
THEN WE WILL GO INTO DISCUSSION
.
THERE ARE TWO WHICH I'M GOING
TO COMBINE AND OUR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED THE SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
721 S FORCE SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
>> WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WHITE OH SORRY.
WE JUST I REALLY WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THIS BUT I'M SORRY
COMMISSIONER DID DID YOU WANT
TO SAY SOMETHING WAS RIGHT?
I BET YOU DID.
>> SO FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO
THANK EVERYONE WHO'S TAKEN TIME
TO WRITE IN TO EMAIL TO SHOW UP
TO TWEET UP ABOUT THIS.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE FOLKS
THAT I'VE HAD SOME IN PERSON
CONVERSATIONS WITH FOR THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
DEVELOPER FOR HEARING US AND
OUR WORKING SESSION AND MAKING
SOME SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENTS.
STAFF HAS NOTED TO THIS PROJECT
AND I JUST WANT TO START BY
STATING MY STRONG SUPPORT FOR
THIS PROPOSED PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT WHEN I READ THE
STAFF REPORT I WAS ACTUALLY
SURPRISED.
I WAS SO SURPRISED I REACHED
OUT TO OUR POLICYMAKERS BECAUSE
IT'S SORT OF MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT STAFF FOLLOW POLICY AND I
WANTED TO CHECK IN TO FIND OUT
IF SOMETHING HAD CHANGED IN OUR
POLICY REGARDING HOUSING IN OUR
CITY.
SO IN MY CONVERSATIONS WITH OUR
POLICYMAKERS I WAS TOLD NO,
NOTHING HAS CHANGED AND BARBER
IS CURRENTLY IN A HOUSING
CRISIS.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS WITH
HISTORICALLY LOW VACANCY RATES
ONE TO TWO PERCENT.
MAYOR TAYLOR, AS RECENTLY AS
JUST A COUPLE OF MEETINGS AGO
HAS SAID ANN ARBOR NEEDS MORE
STARBRIGHT THIS PUDI IS IN A
STUDENT AREA.
IT'S REPLACING STUDENT HOUSING
WITH MORE STUDENT HOUSING I
THINK A NET OF SIX HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THREE BEDS.
IT'S WITHIN A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
HAS COMPARABLE DENSE HOUSING.
EMERGING RESEARCH WHICH JUST
CAME OUT YESTERDAY HAS
INDICATED THAT REMOVING ZONING
BARRIERS AND INCREASING HOUSING
DENSITY HAS POSITIVE EFFECTS ON
RENT STABILIZATION AND
ESPECIALLY HAS POSITIVE EFFECTS
ON RENT STABILIZATION IN AREAS
WITH CONSTRAINED HOUSING SUPPLY
.
THIS PUDI WHICH STAFF HAS
ALREADY NOTED HAS SEVERAL
BENEFITS BUT THE ONE I WANT TO
FOCUS MY TIME ON IS THE FOUR
POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
THAT WILL BE CONTRIBUTED TO OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND.
WHEN I SAW THAT NO I WAS QUITE
IMPRESSED AND I KNOW HAVING
READ OUR UDC THAT THIS IS
REQUIRED BECAUSE THE DENSITY IS
IS EXCEEDING THE UNDERLYING
ZONING THAT IT WOULD REPLACE
BUT WHAT I DIDN'T REALIZE UNTIL
I HAD VISITED OUR DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE EXCUSE ME OUR INTIMATE
PARTNER DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
SHELTER LAST WEEK WAS THAT SAFE
HOUSE IS SEEING FOLKS WHO ARE
FLEEING HOSTILE ENVIRONMENTS
COME INTO THEIR SHELTER AND ARE
SEEKING HOUSING THE AVERAGE
THAT SAFE HOUSE WOULD LIKE TO
HAVE FOLKS WHO COME IN IS ABOUT
THIRTY DAYS ENOUGH TIME FOR
THEM TO GET SITUATED TO GET
THEIR CASEWORKER SET UP AND TO
BEGIN THE PROCESS OF TRYING TO
FIND TRANSITIONAL AND RAPID
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING.
WHAT I LEARNED FROM THE
DIRECTOR AND THE PROGRAM
DIRECTOR IS THAT IT IS TAKING
NOW ON AVERAGE BETWEEN 100 AND
TWENTY DAYS AND ONE HUNDRED AND
EIGHTY DAYS BEFORE VICTIMS
OF DOMESTIC INTIMATE PARTNER
VIOLENCE IN OUR COMMUNITY ARE
ABLE TO TRANSITION INTO
EMERGENCY HOUSING.
THIS PUDI BRINGS NEW HOUSING
ONLINE WHICH WILL HELP IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
THE NEXT THING THAT I LEARNED
FROM OUR HOUSING AND HUMAN
SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD IS THAT
THERE ARE CURRENTLY 900 PEOPLE
THAT ARE ON OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WAITLIST.
THE FOUR POINT SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS BASED ON MY BACK OF THE
CALCULATOR OR IN BACK OF THE
NAPKIN MATH SAYS WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO HOUSE SEVEN HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SEVEN PEOPLE AT THIRTY
PERCENT OF RMI FOR ONE YEAR
WITH THOSE FUNDS OR OVER THREE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FIVE
AND I
HAVE THE NUMBERS AS WE GO DOWN
FROM ONE PERSON TO TWO TO THREE
TO FOUR SO I'M GRATEFUL TO SEE
THIS.
I'M GOING TO SAY WHAT I SAID
WHEN YOU CAME TO THE WORKING
SESSION WHY DIDN'T YOU BUILD IT
HIGHER?
>> I'D LIKE TO SEE AS OTHER
CALLERS HAD NOTED, HIGHER
DENSITY IN THIS SITE.
>> SO I'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
AND I HOPE THAT YOU, MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS WILL JOIN ME IN
THIS SUPPORT TONIGHT.
>> COMMISSIONER DISH
.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER WIRCH
AND THANK YOU EVERYONE WHO'S
HERE WHETHER YOU'RE HERE TO
SPEAK ABOUT THIS PROJECT OR
ANOTHER ONE, IT'S GREAT TO SEE
YOU.
I AM TORN BECAUSE I HAVE THE
MOST RESPECT FOR OUR STAFF AND
FOR THE GOVERNING PRINCIPLES
THAT WE RESPECT AS PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS AND YET IT IS
SIMPLY A FACT THAT OUR LAND-USE
PLANS ARE OLD AND NOT ALIGNED
WITH THE PRINCIPLES AFFIRMED BY
AN ARBITRATES WHO VOTED FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABILITY MILEAGES AND FOR
CANDIDATES WHO HAVE CAMPAIGNED
ON THE MESSAGE THAT WE HAVE A
HOUSING CRISIS AND A CLIMATE
CRISIS.
SO THERE IS MUCH THAT IS
ATTRACTIVE TO ME ABOUT THIS
PROJECT NOT LEAST OF WHICH THAT
IT WOULD PROVIDE A
DEMONSTRATION PROJECT THAT YOU
CAN GO ALL ELECTRIC IN A
BUILDING THAT IS NOT A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME, NOT EVEN A TOWN
HOME AND IS HIGHER THAN FOUR TO
SIX STORIES.
WE HEAR FROM A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO TELL US THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE
SO I WOULD LOVE TO SEE IT DONE.
I RECOGNIZE THAT ALL ELECTRIC
AND NET ZERO WITH RESPECT TO
CARBON AND ENERGY ARE NOT THE
SAME.
BUT IS IT NOT THE CASE THAT AS
ANN ARBOR FINDS ENERGY PARTNERS
WHO ARE WILLING TO PROVIDE
CLEAN HEALTHY OPTIONS FOR POWER
THAT AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING
GETS CLOSER TO NET ZERO WITH
RESPECT TO CARBON AND WE ARE ON
THE ROAD TO NEGOTIATING SUCH AN
AGREEMENT JUST NOW I READ THE
STAFF REPORT CAREFULLY MORE
THAN ONCE AND I PERCEIVE TWO
ARGUMENTS IN IT.
ONE IS THAT THE CONCERN HERE IS
WITHOUT OF SCALE CONSTRUCTION
MEANING THAT THIS HEIGHT IS TOO
MUCH IN THIS CONTEXT
PARTICULARLY IN THE CONTEXT
OF THE ZONING REGULATIONS SO
THAT ARGUMENTS JUST THAT
THERE'S NOTHING THAT COULD MAKE
THIS PROJECT ACCEPTABLE THERE
SEEMS TO BE ANOTHER ARGUMENT OR
I PERCEIVED A SECOND ARGUMENT
WHICH IS THAT THERE AREN'T
ENOUGH PUBLIC BENEFITS TO
JUSTIFY SUCH AND SUCH A HEIGHT.
SO THIS PROJECT DOES EXCEED THE
HEIGHT LIMITS ON THE BOOKS
THOUGH I WOULD NOTE THAT IT IS
JUST 16 FEET TALLER THAN THE
HEIGHT LIMIT FOR D ONE AS A
STAFF REPORT NOTED, UM, I HAVE
WALKED THIS AREA AND DRIVEN
THIS AREA AND THE PROJECT DOES
NOT STRIKE ME AS OUT OF CONTEXT
WITH THE UNIVERSITY TOWERS
PROJECT AND LANDMARK
APARTMENTS.
UM PROJECTS WHICH AT 18 AND 15
STOREYS RESPECTIVELY ARE TALLER
THAN THIS PROPOSED PROJECT AND
LOCATED ROUGHLY TWO BLOCKS AWAY
AT THE INTERSECTION OF FOREST
AND WASHTENAW.
SO PERHAPS SO IF WE SEE IT THAT
WAY IT IS IT EXCEEDS OUR
REGULATIONS THAT IT MAY OR MAY
NOT BE OUT OF CONTEXT DEPENDING
ON WHAT YOU EXPERIENCE AS YOU
MOVE THROUGH THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE LOOK AT THE OTHER OBJECTION
WHICH IS THAT THERE ARE NOT
ENOUGH PUBLIC BENEFITS AND
THERE'S A CLEARANCE STRONG
STATEMENT WE WANT NET ZERO WITH
RESPECT TO CARBON ENERGY WATER
AND WASTE.
HOW MIGHT WE GET CLOSER TO ANY
OF THESE?
I'D LOVE TO HEAR THAT.
I'D LIKE TO DIRECT TO THE
PETITIONER A NOTE THAT WE HAD
SOME WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
FROM CURRENT STUDENT TENANTS
WHO MENTIONED THAT THE NEW
OWNER HAD EXTENDED OR LEASES
THROUGH THE 23 24 ACADEMIC YEAR
AND THEY FEAR THAT THEY WILL BE
DISPLACED.
>> AND SO I WANTED TO HEAR
ABOUT THAT.
I WILL LEAVE IT TO MY
COLLEAGUES TO SPEAK IF THEY
WISH TO THE ISSUES THAT WERE
RAISED ABOUT DANGER TO TREES
AND THE URBAN DESERT EFFECT
WHICH ARE THINGS THAT I DON'T
KNOW ENOUGH ABOUT AND YOU DO
WOULD YOU LIKE TO HAVE THE
DEVELOPER COME AND RESPOND TO
YOUR QUESTION THEN ALREADY
COMMISSIONER MILLS' WELL
COMMISSIONER ED..
>> COMMISSIONER, I APPRECIATE
YOUR COMMENTS.
I ALSO APPRECIATE EVERYONE
WHO'S COME OUT.
I'M GOING TO OFFER A DIFFERENT
KIND OF YOU OR THE THINGS THAT
I OFTEN THINK OF WHEN WEIGHING
APD, WHICH ARE SOME OF WHAT I
THINK WAS LAID OUT IN THE STAFF
MEMO.
>> BUT I ACTUALLY KIND OF DID
MY OWN ANALYSIS TOO.
>> RIGHT.
SO THE FIRST THING IS IS THERE
ANOTHER ZONING DISTRICT THAT
WHERE THIS COULD BE ACHIEVED?
AND I THINK THAT WHAT'S BEEN
TALKED ABOUT A LOT HERE IS D
ONE AND AS NOTED JUST UP THE
STREET BUT WHERE THIS PROJECT
WOULDN'T BE VIABLE AND ONE IS
IT DOES EXCEED THE HEIGHT LIMIT
JUST A LITTLE BIT AND THERE WAS
COMMENTS THE TO THE POINT THAT
WE COULD WELL WE COULD CHANGED
ONE OR WE COULD CHANGE WHAT IS
ALLOWED IN THIS PUDI BUT I
THINK THE IDEA THAT THIS IS
EXTENDING THAT AREA TO ME IT'S
BETTER THAT THERE CONSISTENCY
WITH KIND OF HOW IT ISN'T IF IT
IS IF IT IS INTENDED TO READ
THEN THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I WOULD THINK OF IF IT
WERE D ONE THAT WERE UNDER
DISCUSSION.
>> I'M THINKING ABOUT WHAT ARE
THE WHAT ARE THE STIPULATIONS
THAT WOULD ALLOW IT TO BE BUILT
TO THE RAFAAT THAT IT'S
DEVELOPED BECAUSE THE D ONE
BASE FLOOR AREA RATIO IS FOUR
HUNDRED PERCENT SO TO GET UP TO
THE 650 THAT'S BEING CALLED FOR
HERE YOU NEED THE EITHER NEED
TO PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
OR YOU NEED TO DO
SUSTAINABILITY.
THOSE ARE KIND OF THE THE PATH
IS RIGHT NOW IN ORDER TO YOU
CAN GET UP TO THE 650 650
PERCENT FAVOR BY DOING
SUSTAINABILITY ALONE BUT YOU
HAVE TO GO LEED PLATINUM AND
WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED HERE IS
LEED SILVER.
SO IT'S NOT THE SAME ARGUMENT
THAT OSSI IS GIVING IN TERMS
OF MEETING THAT BAR BUT IT'S
NOT BEATING THE BAR THAT WOULD
IT IT IF IT WERE PROPOSED DO
YOU WANT IT WOULDN'T IT
WOULDN'T BE THE BAR THAT WE
HAVE CURRENTLY THERE FOR THAT
IN TERMS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
YOU CAN GET ANOTHER THREE
HUNDRED PERCENT SO YOU COULD
GET TO THE SIXTY FIVE PERCENT
WITH THE TWENTY PERCENT
AFFORDABLE UNITS.
DO WE HAVE ANY SENSE OF LIKE
HOW MANY UNITS THE THE FOUR
POINT SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS
WHAT THAT TRANSLATES TO I DON'T
I'M SORRY FIFTEEN PERCENT IT'S
15.
>> WELL THAT'S HOW THE NUMBERS
CALCULATE OK OK SORRY.
>> OK SO SO I THINK THAT'S I
MEAN NOW IT SEE LIKE YOU'RE
JOKING I THINK THAT'S A
COMBINATION OF THOSE TWO THINGS
BUT I'M STILL WOULD JUST SAY
THAT IT'S A DIFFERENT BAR IF
THAT WERE IF IT WERE DONE.
SO THE OTHER THING THAT I THINK
ABOUT IN MY MIND THIS IS TRYING
TO ACHIEVE D ONE WITHOUT BEING
IN D ONE WHICH I DON'T TOTALLY
LOVE BECAUSE I DO THINK THAT
THAT DISTRICT AND HOW WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT EXPANDING THIS
AS WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THAT IN
THE SOUTH YOU AREA IS OF THAT
DISTRICT.
SO THEN I THINK ABOUT LIKE WHAT
ARE THE BENEFITS THAT ARE
ACTUALLY PUT ON THE TABLE AND
ARE THEY COMMENSURATE WITH WHAT
IS BEING ASKED OF EXCEEDING
KIND OF OF THIS REZONING?
AND SO AGAIN ON THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SIDE YOU CAN COUNT IT
EITHER WAY YOU CAN COUNT AT THE
YOU CAN COUNT AT THE FOUR POINT
SEVEN PLUS MILLION PLUS THE
FIVE HUNDRED THAT ARE THE FIFTY
THOUSAND OR YOU CAN COUNT IT
LIKE AS EFFECTIVELY SAY THE
FOUR POINT SIX IS REQUIRED SO
WHAT IS ABOVE AND BEYOND AND SO
THAT'S ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY
EIGHT THOUSAND THAT'S THREE
POINT TWO PERCENT OVER THE
REQUIREMENT.
>> SO THAT'S ONE THING ON
SUSTAINABILITY AGAIN YOU CAN
KIND OF SAY LIKE WHAT ARE THE
BENEFITS?
I MAKES VERY CLEAR WHAT THEIR
BUDGET IS AND AGAIN IT SEEMS TO
ME THAT AT LEAST BEING
COMMENSURATE WITH KIND OF WHAT
IS INDEED ONE I THINK IS
REASONABLE.
>> I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT JUST STRIKES ME I THINK
THAT THE PVD IS PARTICULARLY
HELPFUL AND A LOT OF THE
FLEXIBILITY THAT WE HAVE IN OUR
CODE IS WHEN WE HAVE UNIQUE
SITES WHERE THERE'S SOMETHING
THAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO
PROTECT AND I AM NOT THE TREE
PERSON IS THERE.
>> BUT WHEN WE DISCUSSED THIS I
THINK THE THE AND I'LL DEFER TO
OTHER PEOPLE IT IS THINKING
ABOUT THE NORTHERN PROPERTY
BOUNDARY AND THE LOVELY GROVE
OF TREES THAT ARE THERE.
>> WHAT STRIKES ME IS THAT THE
PROPOSED ZONING ACTUALLY
ENCROACHES AND ENCROACHES ON
THEM MORE THAN WHAT IS ALLOWED
IN IN OUR FOURTH DISTRICT.
SO THE NORTH PROPERTY THAT BACK
IS TEN FEET WHERE WHAT WOULD BE
REQUIRED IS TWELVE.
>> AND SO IF WHAT IF THE REASON
THAT IF YOU DON'T BUY
EVERYTHING I JUST SAID AND WE
SAY THAT THE REASON THAT PUDI
MAKES SENSE IS BECAUSE OF OF
PROTECTING THAT NATURAL FEATURE
.
RIGHT.
AND HAVING SOME FLEXIBILITY
AFFORDED BECAUSE OF THAT BEING
CLOSER TO THAT PROPERTY LINE
THEN AND POTENTIALLY HAVING THE
ADDITIONAL SHADING WHICH AGAIN
I DON'T KNOW I REALLY AM
LOOKING TO OTHERS TO HELP
UNDERSTAND WHAT WHAT EFFECT
THAT MIGHT HAVE ON THAT JUST
STRIKES ME AS NOT ACHIEVING
THAT GOAL EITHER.
SO I I APPRECIATE THE
CONVERSATION.
I AM OPEN MINDED ON THIS.
THOSE ARE JUST THE THINGS AS I
WAS KIND OF DOING MY ANALYSIS
OF LAYING OUT HOW TO SQUARE
THIS THAT THAT STUCK OUT TO ME
AND I'M I WILL JUST SAY THAT I
AM REALLY GLAD THAT WE'RE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
RIGHT NOW AND I'M REALLY GLAD
THAT THERE'S SO MANY PEOPLE
HERE BECAUSE I REALLY THINK WE
NEED TO HAVE A REAL
CONVERSATION ABOUT HOW WE'RE
GOING TO BALANCE ADDITIONAL
HOUSING AND SUSTAINABILITY
GOALS BECAUSE THERE WAS THE
TALK BEFORE, RIGHT?
THERE ARE THINGS THAT ARE
UNDOABLE.
DOES IT PUSH DEVELOPMENT
OUTSIDE THE CITY THIS IS AND
WHERE DO WE SEE THAT ADDITIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AND WHAT MUST ALL
DEVELOPMENTS BE NET ZERO?
I DON'T THINK SO.
BUT AT ONE POINT IF YOU WANT TO
EXCEED WHAT IS ALLOWED IN THAT
DISTRICT, WHAT BAR DO YOU HAVE
TO HIT?
AND AND I THINK THAT THAT'S A
REAL CONVERSATION THAT WE NEED
TO HAVE AS PART OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS.
AND SO I'M SAD THAT WE HAVEN'T
FULLY HAD THAT YET.
>> UM,
THANKS COMMISSIONER
SAUVé.
SO IT'S ALL OVER.
SO JUST LAST WEEK WE HAD A
WORKING SESSION OF A SIMILAR
PROJECT THAT THERE WAS PUBLIC
COMMENT FOR AND I ACTUALLY
OFFERED DIFFERENT COMMENTS
WHICH WERE ACTUALLY TO REQUEST
THAT THE PETITIONER CONSIDER A
LOT OF WHAT WAS COMING WITHIN
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
THOSE DISCUSSIONS SINCE IT WAS
NOT YET AT THE TABLE.
NOW WE'RE LOOKING AT A VERY
SIMILAR PROJECT UP FOR VOTE
TONIGHT AND WITHIN THIS TIME
FRAME BETWEEN THE DISCUSSIONS I
HAD A LOT OF THINGS TO CONSIDER
AND ONE OF THEM IS THAT THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
BROUGHT UP TONIGHT AND THANK
YOU EVERYONE FOR YOUR COMMENTS
IS THAT AS A COMMUNITY AS A
WHOLE WE WANT TO TAKE CARE
OF EACH OTHER AND MAKE SPACE
AVAILABLE AND THERE'S A HOUSING
CRISIS AND NOW THE QUESTION IS
WHERE DO WE MAKE SPACE
AVAILABLE?
>> I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS AN
APPROPRIATE SPACE FOR IT AND
THE UNIQUENESS OF THIS PUDI IS
IF WE END UP WITH UP ZONING IN
THIS AREA WE DO NOT GET THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CONTRIBUTION
LATER.
IF WE PAUSE THIS AND WE TELL
THE PETITIONER COME BACK WHEN
THIS AREA'S UP ZONED THROUGH
COMMUNITY AND PUT IN THE NEXT
TWO YEARS WITH A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
ADDITIONAL TWO YEARS TO
ACTUALLY REZONE THIS PROPERTY
IT BECOMES BY RIGHT AND WE DO
NOT GET THE FOUR POINT SEVEN
MILLION I REMEMBER ANOTHER TIME
IN OUR RECENT PAST WHERE WE USE
TERMS LIKE NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER, TOO MANY SHADOWS AND
WE NEED PARKS AND WE LOST FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS IN AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
WE DON'T HAVE TIME TO DO THAT
AGAIN.
WE DON'T HAVE TIME FOR THE
WHISTLE BLOWING.
WE LIKE THE DOG WHISTLE.
IT NEEDS TO STOP AND WE NEED TO
COME TOGETHER AS A COMMUNITY
AND FIGURE OUT WHERE THINGS
HAPPEN AND IT'S IN SOMEBODY'S
BACKYARD AND IT CAN BE IN MY
BACKYARD AND I ABSOLUTELY
SUPPORT THIS PROJECT BECAUSE I
ACTUALLY THINK THAT WE ARE IN A
GAP IT FITS A PUBLIC BENEFIT
THAT MAY NOT EXIST IN THE
FUTURE AS WE MOVE TOWARDS WHAT
I BELIEVE TO BE UP ZONING
THROUGH ALL OF THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT WE'VE HEARD
TONIGHT AND SO WITH THAT I
THINK THAT THIS IS A DENHA
UNIQUE CONDITION IS THE
FRICTION POINT OF HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT AND HIGH DENSITY
AND HISTORIC NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT'S NOT NATURAL FEATURES BUT
IT IS A UNIQUE GEOGRAPHIC
CONDITION WHERE WE HAVE HIGH
DENSITY NEXT TO A PROTECTED
HISTORIC DISTRICT FOR ITS
NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER WHERE WE
ARE PROTECTING BUILDINGS FOR
THE SAKE OF MAKING IT DIFFICULT
FOR PEOPLE TO AFFORD TO LIVE
HERE.
AND IF IT'S MY DECISION AND YOU
KNOW WHAT WE'RE DOING TO
PROTECT I'D RATHER PROTECT
PEOPLE THAN BUILDINGS AND I'D
RATHER SEE NEW CONSTRUCTION
THAN PROTECTING HISTORIC STONES
.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
THIS AS THIS
ANYBODY ELSE GO
AHEAD.
>> COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
SO I THINK THIS HAS BEEN A
DIFFICULT DELIBERATION ON THE
ONE HAND I THINK I IN PRINCIPLE
AGREE WITH ALL OF THE PEOPLE
WHO SUPPORT THIS PROJECT BASED
ON A DESIRE FOR MORE HOUSING
AND SUPPORT OF ITS
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND THE
CONTRIBUTION TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND.
THOSE ARE ALL INCREDIBLE
THINGS.
I THINK IF I GO THROUGH THE
PROCESS MAYBE AKIN TO
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND I THINK
ABOUT IT FROM A PROCEDURAL
STANDPOINT AND I THINK ABOUT
THE ROLE OF THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN UM THE KIND OF PURPOSE
OF A PD AND THE WAY IN WHICH
IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE USED TO
CIRCUMVENT EXISTING ZONING.
AND I THINK ABOUT PUBLIC
BENEFIT.
I THINK IT BECOMES A LITTLE
LESS CLEAR TO ME HONESTLY.
AND SO I HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
WEIGH BOTH OF THOSE THINGS IN
MY HEAD AND I THINK MAYBE JUST
TO BE TRANSPARENT ABOUT THE
PROCESS FOR ALL THE PEOPLE WHO
SPOKE IN SUPPORT AND AGAINST
THIS PROJECT.
AND I ALSO WANT TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE FOR FOR ALL THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE ENGAGED IN THIS
PROCESS.
I THINK IT'S REALLY, REALLY
IMPORTANT NO MATTER WHICH SIDE
OF THIS YOU'RE ON.
BUT I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
MAYBE TO MAKE OUR THOUGHT
PROCESSES TRANSPARENT SO THAT
YOU KNOW THAT WE HEAR YOU AND
THAT WE ACTUALLY TAKE INTO
CONSIDERATION ALL OF THE
INFORMATION WE RECEIVE AND WE
DELIBERATE QUITE FEROCIOUSLY
WHEN WE'RE THINKING ABOUT THESE
DECISIONS AND I THINK I'M I'M
COMING DOWN IN A SIMILAR PLACE
TO COMMISSIONER SILVER, WHICH
IS THAT I THINK WE ARE IN A WE
ARE IN A MOMENT WHERE WE AS A
BODY HAVE BEEN ASKED TO USE OUR
DISCRETION TO MAKE A DECISION
ABOUT SOMETHING WHICH DOES NOT
HAVE A CUT AND DRY ANSWER THAT
YOU CAN KIND OF LOOK TO
PROCEDURE OR LOOK TO POLICY IN
ORDER TO DETERMINE SO THINGS
LIKE HARM OR BENEFIT ARE
ACTUALLY DISCRETIONARY TERMS
THAT WE KNOW THINGS THAT WE
HAVE TO DECIDE AND IN THIS CASE
I THINK THAT THE NEED FOR
HOUSING UH REALLY SUPERSEDES I
WOULD SAY THE FACT THAT WE ARE
AT THE BEGINNING OF A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN PROCESS AS
OPPOSED TO A YEAR FROM NOW, 18
MONTHS FROM NOW WHEN WE WILL BE
ADOPTING A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
WHICH I FEEL VERY CONFIDENT IS
GOING TO CALL FOR GREATER
DENSITY IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
AND SIMILAR TO THE PEOPLE
WHO'VE SAID IF NOT HERE WHERE I
THINK THAT THAT IS KIND
OF WHERE WE'RE HEADED.
BUT I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
I DON'T THINK THAT THAT MEANS
THERE ARE NO DOWNSIDES TO THIS
PROJECT.
THERE ARE ALWAYS TRADE OFFS AND
SOME YOU KNOW, PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO FEEL THE EFFECTS OF THOSE
TRADE OFFS AND SOME PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO FEEL THE BENEFIT TO
THOSE TRADE OFFS.
AND I THINK THAT IS THE THING
THAT ALL OF US UP HERE ARE
TRYING TO WEIGH.
AND BUT I WILL SAY THAT I
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
MITCHELL'S LOGIC, WHICH IS TO
SAY THAT IT IS A LITTLE IT IS A
LITTLE CONFUSING TO ME THAT
THAT WE WERE NOT PRESENTED WITH
YOU KNOW, IF THIS WERE ONE
BLOCK NORTH AND ONE HERE'S WHAT
WE COULD HAVE BUILT AND SO IT
MAKES SENSE TO US THAT WE WOULD
TRY TO ACHIEVE THAT.
IT SEEMS LIKE THAT WAS NOT PART
OF THE CONSIDERATION.
I THINK THERE ARE OTHER THINGS
IN THE PERFORMER THAT ARE
DETERMINING THE DENSITY BUT SO
WHILE THE 15 PERCENT PAYMENT IN
LIEU IS AMAZING, 20 PERCENT
WOULD ACTUALLY GET YOU IN LINE
WITH DO YOU WANT TO BE EVEN
MORE AMAZING?
BUT I PLAN TO VOTE YES.
>> THANKS COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I HAD TO WRITE MY THOUGHT
PROCESS DOWN THOSE VERY
ELOQUENTLY OFF THE CUFF IF THAT
WAS OFF THE HOOK.
I KNOW.
I KNOW WE NEED HOUSING.
WE NEED AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I UNDERSTAND THE URGENCY.
I'M VERY PRO DEVELOPMENT.
I FULLY APPRECIATE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION.
SO THIS WAS REALLY THIS IS HARD
FOR ME.
THIS TO ME IS IT'S NOT AN
ARGUMENT ABOUT NEIGHBORHOOD
CHARACTER BUT I AM HEARING THIS
ARGUMENT THAT, YOU KNOW, THERE
ARE TALL BUILDINGS JUST A BLOCK
OR TWO NORTH.
IT'S ZONED DIFFERENTLY AND I
WORRY THAN THAT THE SAME
ARGUMENT CAN BE USED IF A 12
STOREY BUILDING IS BUILT HERE
IN SOUTH FOREST IN NINETEEN
STOREY BUILDING ON CHURCH
STREET TO CONTINUE TO BUILD
SORT OF RANDOM HIGH RISES BLOCK
BY BLOCK.
WE HAVE ZONING DISTRICTS THAT
ALLOW TALLER BUILDINGS FOR A
REASON IN CERTAIN PLACES IN
DOWNTOWN WE JUST ZONED TO
TRANSIT CORRIDORS WITH MORE
FOLLOWING BEHIND BECAUSE WE
SAID THIS IS WHERE WE WANT THIS
IS WHERE WE THINK TALLER
BUILDINGS MAKE SENSE.
I USE THAT SAME IF NOT HERE
THAN WHERE ARGUMENT FOR ONE
OF MR. MOORE'S HIGHER DENSITY
PROJECTS ALONG A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ON SOUTH MEAN THAT TO
ME IS MORE OF THE WHERE THIS
DOESN'T FEEL LIKE AND IF NOT
HERE THAN WHERE SCENARIO TO ME
WE CAN STILL BUILD MORE DENSITY
WITHOUT BUILDING REALLY TALL
AND I THINK WE ALL KNOW WE NEED
TO CHANGE ZONING CODES TO ALLOW
FOR THAT.
AND AGAIN I UNDERSTAND THE
URGENCY OF ALL OF THIS.
THE PLAN WILL GUIDE US I THINK
TOWARDS A COMMUNITY DECISION ON
ALLOWING MORE DENSITY LIKE
DUPLEXES AND COMPLEXES WITHIN
SINGLE FAMILY ZONES.
WE JUST KEEP SEEING ALL
OF THESE PROPOSALS FOR REALLY
TALL BUILDINGS AND I THINK IT
IS POSSIBLE TO BE MORE DENSE
WITHOUT HEIGHT HIGH RISES ADD
MORE HOUSING.
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO RISKS
OF SOCIAL ISOLATION, LONELINESS
,THINGS LIKE THAT.
I DON'T THINK WE TALK ABOUT
ENOUGH THAT ARE STARTING TO
CONCERN ME THE MORE OF THESE
TYPES OF PROJECTS WE SEE I
DON'T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH TALL
BUILDINGS NEXT TO SHORT
BUILDINGS PER SAY BUT PUTTING
THEM WHAT FEELS TO ME RATHER
ARBITRARILY ON PARCELS OF LAND
THROUGHOUT THE CITY THAT ARE
NOT ZONED FOR THIS DOES NOT
MAKE SENSE TO ME.
SIX OR SEVEN ISH, EIGHT ISH
MAYBE STORIES TO ME MAKES A LOT
MORE SENSE IN THIS LOCATION.
MAYBE THERE'S LESS PARKING AND
NO PARKING.
>> THE BUILDINGS PULLED UP TO
THE STREET MORE FOUR MORE UNITS
AT THAT HEIGHT WE CAN STEP DOWN
HIGHTS FROM THE D OWNS MORE
TRANSITIONALLY THAN A 12 STOREY
BUILDING WOULD ON A SMALLER
BUILDING.
>> FULLER WOULD PROBABLY
CONTRIBUTE MORE THAN THREE
PERCENT OF THE ENERGY NEEDS
WHICH TO ME JUST FEELS NOMINAL
.
AGAIN, I UNDERSTAND THE URGENCY
BUT AT THIS POINT THE PROPOSED
SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS JUST
FEEL ALMOST TOO BASIC TO MAKE
IT WORTH IT TO ME I THINK WE
ALREADY TALKED ABOUT SILVER
VERSUS LEED PLATINUM.
THEY DON'T REALLY PUSH THE
ENVELOPE.
I DON'T THINK THIS WOULD
NECESSARILY BE A MODEL FOR
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN THIS
CITY.
I THINK THAT'S KIND OF A REACH
OF A CLAIM.
IT JUST SEEMS LIKE THERE'S A
LOT OF THROWING MONEY TOWARDS
SOMETHING AND NOT SUBSTANTIALLY
MOVING THE NEEDLE.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S ADDITIONAL
AFFORDABLE HOUSING MONEY ABOVE
AND BEYOND WHAT WAS REQUIRED
WHICH IS GREAT BUT IT JUST I
DON'T KNOW I THINK WE NEED TO
BALANCE THIS PRESSURE
OF NEEDING HOUSING, WANTING
SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS AND
MAKING SURE WE'RE ALLOWING
TALLER BUILDINGS IN AREAS WHERE
THEY MAKE THE MOST SENSE AND
WORKING TO INCREASE DENSITY IN
ALL POSSIBLE WAYS, NOT JUST
HIGH RISES.
I'M STRUGGLING WITH THIS ONE.
I I'M GOING TO VOTE NO EVEN
THOUGH I DON'T THINK I'VE EVER
VOTED NO ON A PROJECT IDEA.
>> THAT'S ALL I'LL SAY FOR NOW
THIS IS HARD.
I AGREE THIS IS HARD FOR ME TO
AND FOR A OUT OF THE REASONS
THAT YOU JUST DETAILED ACTUALLY
I I WOULD RATHER HAVE IT BE A
LITTLE BIT SHORTER THAN THE ONE
THAT SOMEHOW KIND OF DOESN'T
SMELL RIGHT TO ME WITH THAT I
WOULD RATHER HAVE THE PARKING
GO AWAY AND HAVE THERE BE MORE
DENSITY FURTHER DOWN
.
IT'S HARD FOR ME TO EVALUATE
THE TREES WITHOUT KNOWING WE
DIDN'T GET ENOUGH WE DIDN'T GET
A SUNSHADE STUDY OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT FOR ME TO KIND.
I UNDERSTAND THAT OBVIOUSLY.
HAVE YOU ALL COME UP TO RESPOND
TO THE 52 THINGS THAT WE PUT
OUT THERE TO RESPOND TO AT SOME
POINT?
SO BECAUSE IT'S JUST DIFFICULT
TO KNOW WITH THE SHADOWS ARE
GOING TO BE IT DOES LOOK TO ME
LIKE THERE ARE SOME OAKS RIGHT
UP AGAINST THE PROPERTY LINE
THERE WHEN I'M WHEN I'M LOOKING
AT THAT I I THINK IF THIS
WEREN'T A PITY WE'RE NOT GOING
TO GET AN ELECTRIC BUILDING.
I THINK THAT'S JUST THE PLAIN
AND SIMPLE TRUTH OF IT.
AND SO FOR THAT REASON I LIKE
IT THAT AS A BEAUTY AND THAT
IT'S NOT I MEAN GIVEN WHERE WE
ARE IN OUR EVOLUTION OF WHAT
WE'RE DOING WITH OUR CODE ,
THAT'S JUST THAT THE HARD TRUTH
OF IT AND WE DON'T HAVE WE
DON'T HAVE THE NEW ORDINANCE
FOR ELECTRIFICATION OR
DISCONNECTING FROM GAS.
AND SO THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT TO ME AND THAT
THAT AND I WOULD LIKE IT MORE
IF THERE YOU WHILE WE'RE
PUSHING THE ENVELOPE A LITTLE
BIT MORE IN TERMS OF HANDLING
YOU GEOTHERMAL DOING THINGS
LIKE THAT, I IT'S NICE THAT
YOU'RE SORT OF GETTING TOWARDS
PASSIVE HOUSE.
YOU'RE NOT OBVIOUSLY ACHIEVING
I THINK IT'S PRETTY TOUGH TO DO
PASSIVE HOUSE.
THAT ZERO AND A BUILDING THIS
I THINK IT'S PRETTY TOUGH TO DO
TALL.
THAT ZERO AND A BUILDING THIS
I THINK THAT'S I THINK IT'S A
LITTLE BIT HARD TO SEE WHAT
OSSI IS WRITING IN THAT WAY
THAT IT'S KIND OF LIKE WELL
THAT'S PRETTY HARD TO PULL THAT
OFF PEOPLE.
SO THE FACT YOU ALL ARE DOING
ALL ELECTRIC I JUST THINK YOU
COULD DO MORE TO ACTUALLY
SUPPORT YOUR PROJECT FRANKLY
ESPECIALLY GIVEN ALL THE THINGS
THAT ARE COMING OUT FROM THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
I MEAN WHY NOT WHY NOT DO SOME
GEOTHERMAL HERE?
IT TAKES THINKING ABOUT YOUR
BUILDING DIFFERENTLY AND IT
TAKES THINKING ABOUT IT
DIFFERENTLY EARLY ON AND MOVING
FORWARD WITH THAT.
SO YOU KNEW KIND OF HOW WE WERE
THINKING ABOUT THIS FROM OUR
FROM OUR FIRST MEETINGS AND IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN NICE IF YOU ALL
HAD ACTUALLY INCORPORATED SOME
OF THAT MORE BECAUSE YOU HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY YOU COULD DO
WELL HERE.
AND I'M NOT SAYING YOU
NECESSARILY ACHIEVED NAZARRO
THAT YOU'D GET A LOT FURTHER.
WE JUST HAVEN'T HEARD ANYTHING
ELSE WITH THAT OTHER THAN WHAT
I'VE SEEN IN THE OVERSEAS
REPORT WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT
NEBULOUS IN TERMS OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING WITH THAT.
>> SO I THINK I WILL WITHHOLD
MY MY YAY OR NAY UNTIL I HEAR
MORE FROM THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
AND I THINK WE'VE GIVEN YOU ALL
A PRETTY ROBUST LIST OF THINGS
TO RESPOND TO.
>> SO PLEASE WHOMEVER MAKES
SENSE TO COME UP TO TO ANSWER
SOME OF THE VARIOUS QUESTIONS
WE LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR
DISCUSSION.
THAT'S FINE TEAM MEMBERS TO
BEGIN TO WHITTLE THROUGH THEM
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSIONER NILS STATEMENT
ABOUT THE UNIQUENESS OF THE
SITE IN THIS CLEARLY GOES TO
THE URBAN FOREST FRAGMENT THAT
IS RIGHT NEXT DOOR AND WE HAVE
CRAFTED A DESIGN TO HAVE THE
LEAST POSSIBLE IMPACTS ON THAT
AND THAT VERY VALUABLE
COMMUNITY RESOURCE WE HAVE DONE
STUDIES AND WE'VE HIRED THE
FORMER CITY FORESTER BILL
LAWRENCE WHO'S DONE AN
EXTENSIVE MULTI MONTH STUDY AND
RESEARCH ABOUT WHAT THE IMPACTS
OF HOW WE ORGANIZE THE MASS
OF OUR BUILDING AND THE SITE
WOULD HAVE ON THOSE TREES.
SO PART OF WHAT WE DID IS FOR
THE LAST MAJORITY THE LENGTH
OF OUR SITE IS WE PUT A 15 FOOT
GREEN BUFFER ZONE ALONG OUR
NORTHERN PROPERTY LINE SO THAT
WERE NOT IMPACTING ROUTE ZONES
SIGNIFICANTLY OF THOSE LARGER
MATURE TREES.
AND THEN WE ALSO AS YOU RECALL
IN OUR WORKING SESSION WE HAD A
UNIFORM HEIGHT BUILDING.
WE BEGIN TO LOOK AT THOSE SHADE
AND SHADOW STUDIES AND IT WAS
CLEAR THAT WE COULD ALLOW A
LITTLE MORE AFTERNOON SUN ONTO
THOSE TREES BY DROPPING THE
NORTH WEST CORNER OF OUR
BUILDING SIX STOREYS TO ACCOUNT
FOR THE LOSS OF THAT DENSITY
THE THE REST OF THE MASS.
BUT BY DOING THAT WE LOOKED SO
MUCH MORE SUNLIGHT, ESPECIALLY
THE LATE AFTERNOON SUNLIGHT
INTO THOSE.
SO THAT IS ONE OF THE BIGGEST
UNIQUE THINGS ABOUT THE SITE
OUTSIDE OF ITS CONTEXT IN THE
AREA WHERE THERE ARE ALREADY
OTHER TALL BUILDINGS IS THAT WE
HAVE AN URBAN FOREST NEXT YEAR
OR SO WE DON'T WANT TO PROTECT
IT AND SO WE'VE CRAFTED THE
BUILDING AND THE ORGANIZATION
THE SITE IN SUCH A WAY THAT WE
MINIMIZE ANY POTENTIAL OR ANY
LOSS OF ANY CANOPY OF THE TREES
NEXT DOOR.
SO WE HAVE LETTERS TO THAT
EFFECT FROM MR. LAWRENCE IN OUR
SUBMISSION PACKETS.
SO THEY'RE THERE FOR EVERYBODY
TO SEE IF THERE WAS ANOTHER
ITEM.
WHAT'S THE NEXT ITEM ON THAT
YOU'D LIKE TO HEAR ABOUT THE
GOODNESS HAVE GEOTHERMAL
GEOTHERMAL.
DID YOU ALL EXPLORE THAT?
I KNOW WTG AND THE OWNERS HAVE
BEEN WORKING ON THE ENERGY
PACKAGE SO I'LL LET WTG AND
SUBTEXT ADDRESS
.
HI, I'M THAT WTG I DON'T THINK
WE ACTUALLY IN DIRECTLY
INVESTIGATE GEOTHERMAL IN THIS
SITE JUST YET.
WE ACTUALLY DID A COUPLE MORE
OUT OF BUILDINGS.
WE DID FIND OUT THE FOUNDATION
IS ACTUALLY IN THIS AREA IS
QUITE COMPLEX NOW WE DID
ACTUALLY STUDY THE ROOFTOP AREA
FOR ADDITIONAL RENEWABLE ENERGY
ON SITE THERE HAS TO BE
BALANCED OUT WITH ALSO WHAT WE
ARE DOING WITH WHAT WE'RE
SERVING THE BUILDING BECAUSE WE
ALSO HAVE TO USE THE BUILDING
FOR MECHANICAL UNIT AIR INTAKE.
YOU KNOW, ACTUALLY AC SYSTEM AS
WELL.
SO WE ARE STUDYING THAT THERE
CURRENTLY WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING
AND ACTUALLY WE HAVE ALREADY
EXPANDED A LITTLE BIT MORE TO
THE AMOUNT OF SOLAR PANELS THAT
WE CAN ACTUALLY PUT TO ACTUALLY
FIT ON A FOOTPRINT SO THAT THAT
THAT'S WHERE WE ARE AT.
SCOTT, DO YOU HAVE ANY I WAS
LOOKING AT THE CONSTRAINTS THE
EXISTING ADAM SCOTT THAT'S OLD
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
GOOD TO SEE YOU ALL AGAIN.
I ALSO WANT TO JUST ADD THAT
THE EXISTING SITE HAS NO
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
AND WE'RE PUTTING IN
UNDERGROUND DETENTION AND
GETTING FULL INFILTRATION.
BUT THE RATE OF INFILTRATION
WASN'T GREAT AS WE LIKED IT.
SO THE EXPANSE OF THE
UNDERGROUND CHAMBERS GREW WHICH
IS BECOMES A LITTLE PROHIBITIVE
FOR GEOTHERMAL LOOPS AS WELL.
I'M NOT AN EXPERT AT IT BUT I
KNOW PEOPLE HAVE LOOKED AT IT
AND SAID WELL IT'S TOO BAD
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T SEEM TO
REALLY WORK OUT AS WELL AS IT
COULD HAVE FOR A BUILDING OF A
SIZE FROM OUR PREVIOUS OUR
PROJECT NOT IN THIS SITE.
WE ACTUALLY KNOW THAT A LOT
OF THESE GEOTHERMAL ACTUALLY
NEED A LOT MORE FOOTPRINT
COMPARED TO OUR BUILDING
FOOTPRINT AND I SO THAT'S WHY
WE DO NOT SO FAR INVESTIGATE A
WHOLE LOT OF INVESTIGATION
OF GEOTHERMAL.
>> PETRAGLIA, ON THIS SITE IF I
COULD INTERRUPT FOR ONE SECOND
THOUGH I MEAN I DON'T THINK
THAT A LOOP SYSTEM WOULD EVEN
BE CONSIDERED BUILDING THIS
HIGH.
YOU WOULD BE DOING WELLS FOR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO IT'S REALLY A QUESTION
OF HOW DEEP RATHER THAN HOW BIG
THE AREA WOULD BE.
I KNOW YOU SPOKE AT THE VERY
BEGINNING ABOUT HAVING JOHN
BISSON ON YOUR TEAM WHO HAVE
WORKED WITH BEFORE IN THE PAST.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU HAVE A
REPRESENTATIVE OF THAT GROUP
THAT MIGHT BE ABLE TO SPEAK
MORE CLEARLY TO THIS TOPIC
SPECIFICALLY OR NO, WE DO NOT
HAVE THAT PERSON HERE TODAY.
>> MAYBE WE CAN FOLLOW UP LATER
ON.
>> I WOULD SUGGEST THAT YOU DO
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THOSE AND
THE COMMISSION AND THOSE THE
CITY COUNCIL WILL LIKELY WANT
TO KNOW MORE SPECIFICS ABOUT
THAT BECAUSE I THINK THAT THAT
AGAIN WITH THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT OUT THERE HELPING
WITH THIS, IT JUST SEEMS
PRUDENT TO THINK THROUGH THOSE
THINGS AS AS POSSIBILITIES
BECAUSE FRANKLY IT'S FREE
ENERGY.
IT TAKES SOMETHING TO PUT IT IN
.
BUT THIS IS RENTAL.
THIS IS PART OF THE POWER
OF RENTAL IS THAT THE MORE YOU
INVEST THE BEGINNING CAN COME
BACK TO YOU LATER ON.
YOU KNOW, ONCE THAT SYSTEM IS
PAID FOR THEN YOU'RE HARVESTING
WHAT IS FREE TO EVERYBODY WHICH
IS THE TEMPERATURE OF THE
GROUND.
SO I REALLY WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU
ALL TO EXPLORE THAT IN A
MEANINGFUL WAY WITH THE PEOPLE
THAT YOU'VE HIRED ON YOUR TEAM
TO BE ABLE TO KNOW THAT BECAUSE
I KNOW I'VE WORKED WITH JOHN
BEFORE.
I KNOW HE'S GOING TO KNOW THAT
STUFF COLD I'M SURE WHO WHOEVER
HE'S WORKING WITH WILL BE ABLE
TO ADVISE YOU.
WELL, WITH THAT WHAT HE NEEDS
IS A GREEN LIGHT FROM YOU ALL
AND GOAL SETTING FROM YOU ALL
THAT THAT IS WHAT YOU SEE AS
PART OF WHAT YOU WANT TO
ACHIEVE.
SO THAT'S I THINK THAT THAT'S
AN IMPORTANT PIECE AS YOU MOVE
FORWARD TO THINK ABOUT IF YOU
ALL PASS TONIGHT AND THIS IS
COMMISSIONER DISH, YOU ALSO HAD
SOME OTHER THINGS TO BRING UP
THAT YOU HAD WANTED THEM TO
RESPOND TO BUT THIS WAS LIKE 45
MINUTES TO GO.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT WAS
ONE TINY THING AND I I AM I'M
ALWAYS I REALLY BENEFIT SO MUCH
BY YOUR EXPERTIZE COMMISSIONER
GET BRANDELL AND SO I I I WOULD
SAY THAT COUNCIL WOULD BE VERY
INTERESTED IN HEARING A SERIOUS
EXPLORATION OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF GEOTHERMAL WELLS AND IT MAY
NOT COVER EVERYTHING BUT IT
COULD COVER A LOT AND SO
ESPECIALLY IF YOU HAVE AN
ELECTRIC ELECTRIC BUILDING IT'S
ONLY GOING TO HELP YOU WITH YOU
KNOW, YOUR COSTS AS THE
BUILDING AGES.
>> AND THEN THE QUESTION THAT I
HAD WAS FROM THE IT WAS FROM
THE WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS THAT
WE GOT FROM A FEW STUDENTS WHO
MENTIONED THAT THEY HAD BEEN
OFFERED LEASE EXTENSIONS
THROUGH THROUGH THE ACADEMIC
YEAR TWENTY TWENTY THREE TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR.
>> SO TILL ABOUT THIS TIME NEXT
YEAR AND THEY WERE CONCERNED
THAT THEY'D BE DISPLACED BY THE
CONSTRUCTION.
>> YEAH WE AND WE UNDERSTAND
THAT AND WE ARE RIGHT NOW JUST
FOCUSING ON RENEWABLES AND JUST
GIVEN THE EARLY STAGES OF WHERE
WE'RE AT RIGHT NOW IT'S IT'S
DIFFICULT FOR US TO NOT OFFER
THOSE RENEWABLES AND ALSO I CAN
SAY THAT WE LOOK TO BE
TRANSPARENT WITH THOSE TENANTS.
WE LOOK TO WORK CLOSELY WITH
THOSE TENANTS AND AND HELP THEM
ULTIMATELY IF THIS PROJECT IS
APPROVED AND WE WOULD BE
PROCEEDING TO CONSTRUCTION IN
THE FALL
, COULD YOU BE MORE
SPECIFIC ABOUT HOW YOU'LL HELP
THEM?
>> BECAUSE AS WE KNOW, LEASE'S
PLACES GET LEASED UP FOR THE
NEXT ACADEMIC YEAR USUALLY IN
THE FALL ACTUALLY DESPITE OUR
LEGISLATIVE ATTEMPTS TO FORCE
THAT CHANGE.
SO HOW WOULD YOU FIND BEDS FOR
WHAT ARE THEY ABOUT A HUNDRED
AND TEN?
>> THAT WOULD BE THE TOTAL.
YEAH, RIGHT NOW IT'S JUST THOSE
RENEWALS OF THE TENANTS THAT
HAVE SHOWN INTEREST IN THAT.
SO USUALLY WE WORK WITH OUR
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT TEAM TO
WORK THROUGH THEIR CONNECTIONS
WITH OTHER PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
GROUPS AND THEY THEY CAN
USUALLY IDENTIFY LOCATIONS
PREEMPTIVELY SO THAT THOSE
STUDENTS HAVE WON'T HAVE TO GO
OUT ON THEIR OWN AND FIND IT IN
A VERY TIGHT MARKET.
IT WOULD BE IMPORTANT THAT
THOSE BE COMPARABLY PRICED TO
TO WHAT THEY ARE PLANNING ON
BASED ON THE RENEWAL THAT THEY
MADE WITH YOU BECAUSE AS YOU
KNOW, IT'S VERY HARD THE PRICES
ARE VERY HARD FOR THEM TO MEET.
>> YEAH, SOME OF THEM
ESPECIALLY GRAD STUDENTS BUT
YEAH, SO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE ANSWER.
I'M ANYTHING ELSE.
>> WERE THERE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS OR RESPONSES THAT
FOLKS WANTED FROM THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM?
>> IT WASN'T ASKED BUT IT'S A
FOLLOW ON SO KIND OF WHAT WE
WERE DISCUSSING IF YOU WERE TO
FURTHER EXPLORE AND THIS IS I
DON'T KNOW THE ANSWER TO THIS
SO IF YOU WERE TO FURTHER
EXPLORE GEOTHERMAL, HOW HARD IS
IT TO GO FROM LEED SILVER TO
LEAD GOLD?
>> MAYBE THAT'S NOT YOU MAYBE
THAT SOMEBODY ELSE ON YOUR
TEAM?
WELL, I MEAN I WILL ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT WE HAVE NOT DONE THE FULL
IN DEPTH STUDY OF GEOTHERMAL
BASED ON OUR TEAM'S EXPERIENCE
OF OUR OF OUR FULL PROJECT TEAM
GIVEN THE SITE THIS SIZE AND
THE LIMITED AREA THAT WE HAVE
DUE TO OUR STORMWATER DETENTION
THAT WE GENERALLY FEEL THAT
THAT'S NOT GOING TO BE COST
EFFECTIVE OR FEASIBLE.
BUT I DO ACKNOWLEDGE THE THE
NEED FOR MAYBE FURTHER STUDY
INTO THAT AND HAVING THE
NUMBERS TO BACK THAT UP
.
SO ARE WE READY FOR A VOTE?
YEAH, OH ONE MORE.
>> WELL, IF THE OTHER THING SO
I I'M STILL TRYING TO MAKE UP
MY MIND HONESTLY AND SO I JUST
DO WANT TO POINT OUT ONE THING
THAT IS HAPPENING IN HERE IN
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS SO I
APPRECIATE THE ONE STUDY IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS DOESN'T I
DON'T SEE ANYTHING IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS SUGGESTING
THAT THERE WOULD BE A SETBACK
FROM THE NORTHWEST CORNER AND
IF THAT IS IF IF PEOPLE CARE
ABOUT THAT WHICH I COULD ONLY
VOTE FOR THIS IF THAT I MEAN I
THINK THAT AGAIN I HAVE THIS OH
I I THINK THAT WHERE THERE IS A
VIABLE CURRENT ZONING OR ZONING
DISTRICT, I THINK THAT THAT
MAKES A WHOLE LOT OF SENSE TO
YOU.
SO I'M ONLY COMFORTABLE KIND
OF VOTING FOR THIS UNDER THE
CONDITION YOU KNOW, THAT THIS
IS OFFERING SOMETHING ELSE AND
THAT THAT CAN'T BE ACHIEVED.
AND I THINK THAT I HAVE BEEN
PERSUADED BUT THAT'S MISSING
RIGHT NOW FROM THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS.
UM, SO I KNOW THAT THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT CALLS FOR
THE BUILDING TO BE
SUBSTANTIALLY AS IT'S PRESENTED
HERE OR IT HAS TO COME BACK TO
THIS BODY IF THERE'S MAJOR
CHANGES THAT YOU COULD YOU
COULD SAY THAT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF YOUR UNIT IS COVERING IT.
BUT WE COULD CERTAINLY MAKE
AMENDMENTS TO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS BETWEEN HERE AND
COUNCIL AS WELL ADD THAT SAME
PROTECTION SO THE BOTH
DOCUMENTS OK, THE OTHER THING
THAT I THOUGHT I WOULD BRING UP
BECAUSE AGAIN IN THIS IDEA
OF LIKE HOW WHERE SHOULD THE
BABI BETWEEN KIND OF D ONE AND
PDS AGAIN I SEE TWO DIFFERENT
PATHWAYS THAT THIS COULD BE
ACHIEVABLE AND ONE AND ONE IS
THROUGH HIGHER AFFORDABLE
HOUSING A 20 PERCENT RATHER
THAN A 15 PERCENT AND THE OTHER
IS THROUGH HIGHER
SUSTAINABILITY OR THERE'S A
COMBINATION OF AND THIS IS WHY
I JUST TALKED ABOUT GOLD
BECAUSE THE COMBINATION OF 15
PERCENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
LEED GOLD ALSO GETS YOU THE
FACTOR THAT IS EFFECTIVELY WHAT
IS BEING PROPOSED.
AND SO I'M CURIOUS FROM THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM LIKE WHETHER
EITHER OF THOSE EITHER
INCREASINGLY AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION OR INCREASING THE
COMMITMENT TO ACHIEVE NOT LEED
SILVER BUT LEED GOLD IS A
VIABLE PATH FOR YOUR TEAM AS
HAS BEEN ACKNOWLEDGED THAT PUDI
ALLOWS FOR CERTAIN OTHER
BALANCE OF COSTS AND BENEFITS.
AND SO WHAT WE'VE DONE IS
PARTNERED WITH THE AGE DC AND
MAKING THIS FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLAR DONATION AND THAT'S
GOING TO GO DIRECTLY TO
SUSTAINABILITY UPGRADES IN
THEIR BUILDINGS THROUGHOUT THE
CENTRAL AREA.
SO THE MATHEMATICA I DON'T KNOW
WHAT THAT WOULD EQUATE TO BUT I
FEEL LIKE THAT SUPPORTS BOTH
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THE
SUSTAINABILITY AND SO WE'RE
TRYING TO TAKE A CREATIVE VIEW
AT HOW HOW CAN WE BEST HELP
MEET THE GOALS ALONG THESE
DIFFERENT AVENUES.
AND AGAIN, THE CONSTRAINTS
OF THIS PARTICULAR SITE WITH
REGARDS TO THE NATURAL FEATURES
AND THE SETBACKS OF THE THE
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY IS THAT
BACK WHICH IS WHAT DROVE US TO
PROVIDE THIS SETBACK TO KIND
OF BE EQUAL WITH THAT AS WELL
AS MAINTAINING THE VIEWS TO
THAT GROVE OF TREES TO THE
NORTH.
SO THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT WE
WERE PUSHING AND PULLING ON
THROUGHOUT THIS PROCESS AND YOU
KNOW, TAKING BITS AND PIECES
OF COMMENTS FROM YOU ALL HERE
AND FROM OTHERS STAKEHOLDERS
WHO WE'VE TALKED TO AND TRYING
TO APPLY THEM IN A CREATIVE
MANNER TO MEET AS MUCH AS WE
COULD.
COMMISSIONER, I THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE OF COURSE THE THE
FACT THAT YOU'VE GONE ALMOST
100000 OVER THE 15 PERCENT
THRESHOLD FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CONTRIBUTION.
I APPRECIATE THE 50000 DOLLARS
.
I THINK THAT THAT IS A A
MEANINGFUL THING TO DO.
BUT GIVEN THE WAY THAT THE I
WILL BE REPORTING THE
DISCUSSION AS IT HAS BEEN
FRAMED HERE AT PLANNING
COMMISSION TO COUNCIL IF THIS
PROJECT GOES FORWARD TO COUNCIL
AND IT I WILL PRESENT TO THEM
THE QUESTION OF HOW DO WE
ANSWER WHERE THE BAR SHOULD BE
AND I WILL PRESENT TO THEM THE
OPTIONS THAT COMMISSIONER MILLS
HAS CLEARLY LAID OUT AND IT IS
POSSIBLE THAT THE COUNCIL WOULD
SAY OK, JUST MAKE IT 20 OR SO A
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLAR DONATION
AND I APPRECIATE IT VERY MUCH
AND I'M NOT NOT YOU KNOW,
YOU'VE DONE A LOT OF WORK.
I'M NOT TRYING TO NAYSAY THAT.
BUT I WAS I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD BE OVER A MILLION IF IT'S
FOUR POINT SEVEN MILLION IS
FIFTEEN PERCENT TWENTY PERCENT
HAS TO BE LIKE SIX SIX OH YEAH.
ONE POINT WAS YES.
SO TOTAL CLOSE TO SIX POINT
FIVE MILLION SO UM SO YOU'LL
HAVE THOSE OPTIONS WILL BE IN
FRONT OF COUNSEL TO ASK YOU TO
DO THEY MAY SAY NO YOU'VE DONE
ENOUGH IF PROVIDED THIS GETS A
COUNCIL.
I'M NOT SAYING THAT I KNOW THAT
IT WILL BUT I WOULD REALLY WANT
TO SEE THE MATH FROM YOU AS TO
WHAT THE EFFECT THAT WOULD HAVE
ON YOUR ON YOUR FINANCIALS IF
IF WE PRESSED YOU TO A TWENTY
PERCENT AFFORDABLE CONTRIBUTION
BECAUSE I'M NOT SAYING THAT
COUNCIL WOULD BUT AGAIN WE NEED
THE NUMBERS IF YOU REALLY THINK
THAT GEOTHERMAL UNDERSTAND THAT
YOU'RE NOT TALKING AREA BUT
YOU'RE TALKING DEATH IF YOU
THINK IT'S NOT FEASIBLE THERE
WE WOULD NEED TO SEE WHY AND IF
MOVING FROM 15 TO 20 PERCENT
AFFORDABLE KILLS YOU NEED TO
KNOW NEED TO SEE IT OPEN TO
HEARING OK, ALL RIGHT.
>> THANKS COMMISSIONER.
WHY DID YOU HAVE SOMETHING THAT
YOU WANTED TO.
>> I DID.
IT WAS JUST A REALLY QUICK
THING BECAUSE I HEARD
COMMISSIONER MILLS LIKE YOU
CAN OR STATE THAT YOU COULD GET
THIS TO D ONE IF IT WAS AT 50
PERCENT AFFORDABILITY AND LEED
GOLD FIFTEEN RIGHT.
DID I SAY FIFTY?
IT SOUNDED LIKE IT BUT I HAD MY
UNDERSTANDING FROM A TABLE WAS
FIFTEEN PERCENT GETS YOU ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY PERCENT I
GOLD GET YOU ANOTHER HUNDRED
AND FIFTY PERCENT RIGHT SO THAT
THAT WOULD GET YOU TO THE THREE
HUNDRED PERCENT IF THEY ARE SO
IT JUST DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU
ARE WHAT LEAD SILVER RIGHT OR
IT'S A FIFTY TO FIFTY NINE
POINT RANGE AND GOLD IS IT
STARTS AT SIXTY SO IF YOU ARE
ALREADY GOING TO BE AT FIFTY
NINE GO TO GO TO SIXTY AND IT
SOUNDS LIKE YOU HAVE CONVINCED
COMMISSIONER MILLS SO IF
SOMEONE WANTS TO COMMIT TO THAT
AT THE TABLE IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU
HAVE CONVINCED COMMISSIONER
MILLS BUT IF NO ONE WANTS TO
COMMIT TO THAT YOU'LL HAVE TO
ROLL THE DICE AND SEE HOW THE
MONEY I GUESS THE ONLY OTHER
THING I WOULD SAY IS IS MR.
KOWALSKI, IS THERE ANYTHING YOU
WOULD LIKE TO ADD?
THIS IS NOT OUR TYPICAL
SITUATION AND I JUST WANT TO
GIVE YOU SOME SPACE TO BE ABLE
TO JUST RESPOND TO WHAT PEOPLE
HAVE SAID AND IF THERE'S THINGS
YOU'VE BEEN INTERFACING WITH
ALL THE STAFF ON THIS AND JUST
ARE THERE ARE THINGS THAT YOU
WOULD WANT TO BE ABLE TO ADD TO
THE CONVERSATION HERE?
>> NO, I MEAN I THINK YOU GUYS
HAVE HAD A GREAT DISCUSSION.
I MEAN IT WAS ONE THAT, YOU
KNOW, STAFF STRUGGLES WITH AS
WELL FOR MANY OF THE REASONS
THAT YOU GUYS HAVE POINTED OUT
THAT WERE BENEFITS OF THE
PROJECT.
BUT NO, I MEAN I THINK MY STAFF
WHAT REALLY COMES DOWN TO AS
WELL AS IS COMMISSIONER MILLS
HIT IT AND IT WASN'T IS CLEARLY
IDENTIFIED.
MY REPORT IS THAT IS IS THE
ZONING
DISTRICT HERE IS THAT
IT'S NOT THERE'S NOTHING THAT'S
TRULY UNIQUE ABOUT THE SITE
THAT REQUIRES THAT OTHER THAN
REQUIRING EXTRA DENSITY.
>> SO BUT BUT I OTHER THAN
ACQUIRING EXTRA DENSITY THROUGH
THAT BUT AND I ACKNOWLEDGE
WE'RE AT THIS UNIQUE POINT IN
OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLANS AS WELL
AS OUR EXISTING ZONING IN THERE
AND THAT LIKE I SAID AND
CLEARLY IN MY REPORT IT'S
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT YOU KNOW,
THIS MAY NOT BE WHAT'S THERE
NOW THAT ZONING WISE I MEAN I
DON'T THINK ANYBODY NECESSARILY
AGREES IS THE CORRECT DENSITY
FOR THAT AREA FOR MANY OF THE
REASONS YOU GUYS HIGHLIGHTED.
BUT AGAIN, IT WAS JUST A TOUGH
WE HAVE TO LOOK STAFF AGAIN.
YOU GUYS HAVE MORE OF AN
ABILITY TO KIND OF LOOK AT THAT
OVERALL PICTURE AND SEE I'M
LOOKING AT WHAT'S PRESENTED TO
ME AND THE DOCUMENTS THAT I
HAVE TO GO BY AND AGAIN LIKE IS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS IT'S A
TREMENDOUS CONTRIBUTION.
BUT WE DO HAVE TO I HAVE TO
KIND OF BREAK IT DOWN TO WHAT
WERE A GIVEN JUST AS A
REQUIREMENT AND YES, THEY'RE
GOING UP ABOVE AND BEYOND THAT
IN A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT AREAS.
BUT AGAIN LOOKING ALL MY
DOCUMENTS THAT I HAVE TO PUT
TOGETHER LOOKING AT THE CONTEXT
,LOOK AT WHERE WE ARE IN
HISTORY AND TRYING TO COMPARE
THIS WITH FOOD COMES IN NEXT
DOOR.
SO THOSE ARE ACROSS THE NEXT
BLOCK OVER AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
SO THAT'S KIND OF HOW WE LOOKED
AT THE ENTIRE PICTURE.
SO BUT I MEAN I ACKNOWLEDGE THE
PETITIONER THEY'VE WORKED WITH
AS FAR AS I FEEL COMFORTABLE
THEY THEY COULD GO AND THEY
MADE PLENTY OF CHANGES AND SO
NO I MEAN I THINK THIS IS ALL
BEEN A GREAT DISCUSSION.
WE'VE GOT LOTS OF GOOD THINGS
FOR COUNCIL TO ADDRESS AS WELL.
SO NO, I APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ADD THAT THE
ONLY OTHER THING I WOULD SAY IS
I THINK COMMISSIONER MILLS, THE
QUESTION REGARDING THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS IN YOU'RE
CORRECT WHAT'S IN THERE NOW IS
IT'S KIND OF JUST AN ENVELOPE.
>> SO YOU'RE CORRECT AS SHOWN
ON THAT PLAN IT DIPS DOWN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS WOULD NOT
GUARANTEE THAT.
AND I KNOW MR. MOORE MOORHEAD
ADDRESSED THAT THE ELEVATIONS
WHICH IS TRUE TO A CERTAIN
DEGREE I THINK THAT BUT I
WOULDN'T FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH
JUST THAT.
I COULD AGAIN WITH IF I HEAR
AGREEMENT FROM THE OVERALL
COMMISSION I MEAN I THINK WE
CAN EASILY BETWEEN MYSELF AND
THE PETITIONER WORK TO FRAME
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS SO YOU
GET THE STRUCTURE OF THE
BUILDING MORE EXACT.
>> I MEAN WE CAN SAY A SETBACK
BACK HERE TO THIS LENGTH AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO I BELIEVE THERE'S A WAY WE
CAN STRUCTURE THAT TO ADDRESS
COMMISSIONER MILLER'S CONCERNS.
SO I MEAN WITH THAT I THINK I'M
DONE.
OK, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
ARE WE READY?
ALL RIGHT.
READY AS I'LL EVER BE FOR A
ARE WE READY?
VOTE.
READY AS I'LL EVER BE FOR A
>> UH, VOTE ON THE MOTIONS AS
VOTE.
PRESENTED COMMISSIONER WISCH.
>> UH, VOTE ON THE MOTIONS AS
YES, COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
PRESENTED COMMISSIONER WISCH.
>> NERDISH YES, COMMISSIONER
YES, COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT NO.
>> NERDISH YES, COMMISSIONER
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YES.
HAMMERSCHMIDT NO.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM'S YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
GIVE RANDOL YES.
COMMISSIONER.
MR MILLS NO MOTION KURTS VOTE
GIVE RANDOL YES.
CARDS ALL ALREADY.
MR MILLS NO MOTION KURTS VOTE
I THINK WE SHOULD TAKE A BODY
CARDS ALL ALREADY.
BREAK FOR TEN MINUTES.
I THINK WE SHOULD TAKE A BODY
WE'LL RECONVENE AT FIVE MINUTES
BREAK FOR TEN MINUTES.
TO
ALREADY LET'S BEGIN WE ARE
ON TO ITEM EIGHT C WHICH IS ONE
TWENTY ONE CATHERINE STREET
SITE PLAN AND LET'S SEE DO WE
HAVE A DESCRIPTION OF THIS ONE.
WE DO NOT HAVE A DESCRIPTION
FOR THIS ONE SO I GUESS WE WILL
START WITH THIS PRESENTATION.
>> LET'S START WITH THE
PICTURE.
THIS IS YOUR PRESENTATION BOY.
>> I AM FEELING IT TONIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THE CROWD.
YOU KNOW, SO YEAH I KNOW
EXACTLY REALLY GO AHEAD.
>> HI, I'M JENNIFER HALL, THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION.
THIS SITE IS ONE OF TEN CITY
OWNED PROPERTIES THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL IN TWENTY NINETEEN
DIRECTED THE HOUSING COMMISSION
AND OTHER CITY STAFF TO
EVALUATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
TO DEVELOP THOSE SITES IF THEY
WERE DETERMINED TO BE
FINANCIALLY FINANCIALLY
FEASIBLE LOCATIONS.
I AM HERE WITH MY DEVELOPMENT
TEAM.
WE HAVE SOME FOLKS THAT ARE
HERE IN PERSON.
MANY OF THEM ARE ONLINE AS WELL
WHO WILL BE PRESENTING AND
ANSWERING QUESTIONS.
JACK SCHROEDER AND ASHLEY, WHEN
WILL BE PRESENTING FROM LANDON
BOWMAKER ARCHITECTS ARE
REPORTING YOU AND WENDY KADEE
SEXON ARE HERE FROM AVALON
HOUSING, KATHY KENNETH FROM
MACON ENGINEERING, DARREN
MACKENNA FROM DMC REAL ESTATE
SERVICES, TIM STOUT FROM O'NIEL
CONSTRUCTION.
AND WE ALSO HAVE A UNIQUE PART
OF OUR DEVELOPMENT TEAM WHICH
IS THAT WE HAVE A NUMBER
OF BLACK LEADERS THAT ARE
CONSULTING WITH US INCLUDING
ANGELA DAVIS IS HERE IN PERSON
WHO ARE HERE TO AS OUR
COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL IS DESIGNING AND
CREATING A COMMUNITY AND
CULTURAL SPACE TO SUPPORT AND
HONOR THE HISTORICALLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WELL AS
BUSINESS DISTRICT THAT USED TO
BE LOCATED IN THIS AREA AND HAS
BEEN DISPLACED AND LOST BY
ECONOMIC GENTRIFICATION AND ALL
OF THE HOUSING THAT WE ARE
PROVIDING IS FOR HOUSEHOLDS AT
OR BELOW 60 PERCENT OF THE AREA
MEDIAN INCOME HALF ARE RESERVED
AS SUPPORTIVE HOUSING AND HALF
IS RESERVED FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING IN OR HOBBYISTS IN THE
CREATIVE FIELDS.
BUT SINCE WE ARE HERE TO TALK
ABOUT THE BUILDING AND THE SITE
PLAN, I'M GOING TO TURN THIS
OVER TO OUR ARCHITECT TO GO
THROUGH THE SITE PLAN WITH YOU
AND THEY WILL BE ONLINE
.
>> HELLO JOE SCHRUDER CAN YOU
HEAR ME AND SEE MY SCREEN?
>> WE CAN CREATE A BETTER ORDER
LBB I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
PRESENT TO YOU ALL APPRECIATE
YOUR TIME AND ATTENTION PRETTY
QUICKLY.
IT'S ALREADY BEEN A LONG
EVENING SO I WILL MOVE THROUGH
IT AND SHOW YOU OUR PROGRAM
KIND OF OUR ESTHETIC FEEL FOR
THE BUILDING SITE SIDE OF IT
BUT ALWAYS OPEN FOR MORE
QUESTIONS ABOUT DENHA SO THIS
IS OUR DEVELOPMENT ONE TWENTY
ONE CATHERINE STREET NEXT USE
WITH SIX STORIES TALL.
SIXTY THREE UNITS OF HOUSING.
SIXTY TWO WHICH ARE ONE BEDROOM
ONE TWO BEDROOM CLOSE PROPOSING
SIXTEEN PARKING PLACES AND YOU
CAN SEE IN THIS IMAGE WHERE IT
SITS RIGHT AT THE CORNER OF 4TH
OF CATHERINE AND THE TOWN RIGHT
ACROSS FROM THE MARKET
JUST A
FEW CONTEXTUAL PHOTOS JUST A
PLACE I KNOW EVERYBODY'S VERY
FAMILIAR WITH THE SITE.
THIS IS OUR SHARED PUBLIC.
WE ARE LOOKING DOWN FROM
CATHERINE STREET AND THEN JUST
THE CURRENT USE OF THE SITE
WHICH IS A SURFACE PARKING LOT,
A PUBLIC SERVICE PARK SURFACE
PARKING LOT.
>> SO WE'RE BRINGING SOME
PARKING BACKWARDS.
CERTAINLY WOULDN'T MATCH THE
COUNTS HERE BUT KIND
OF DELIVERING A HIGHER USE FOR
THE SITE WE THINK LOOKING
AROUND AT THE IMMEDIATE
CONTEXT, YOU KNOW, WE LOVE THE
TEXTURE MATERIALS THESE
BUILDINGS THAT ARE AROUND AND
WE HOPE TO PULL SOME THAT INTO
OUR ARCHITECTURE AND WE REALLY
LOVE THE WALKABILITY OF THIS
AREA, THE ABILITY TO WALK OR
GATHERING DINING AND DIFFERENT
ACTIVITIES.
SO WE'RE EXCITED TO BE A PART
OF THIS FABRIC.
THIS IS A BUILDING IN ITS
CURRENT STATE.
WE'RE HELD PRETTY CLOSE TO THE
CORNER TO FORM THE SORT
OF URBAN WALL THAT I THINK THE
BEST FIT THE SITE.
WE PULLED BACK A LITTLE BIT OFF
OF KATHERINE, A LITTLE BIT
ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PROPERTY
THERE TO MARK OUR MAIN ENTRY
FOR THE RESIDENCE AND THEN OUR
MAIN ENTRY FOR THIS FUTURO
FUTURE CULTURAL COMMUNITY SPACE
THAT WE'RE WORKING WITH THE
COUNCIL ON THE FIRST TWO FLOORS
THE BUILDING ARE KIND OF A RED
BRICK MASONRY TO WORK WITH A
LOT OF WHAT'S AROUND YOU KNOW,
IT IS CLEANER LINES A LITTLE
MORE MODERN BUT WE'RE TRYING TO
BRING SOME OF THAT TEXTURE IN
THAT WE SEE KIND OF THROUGHOUT
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE UPPER
FLOOR LEVEL TRANSITION.
THEY STEP IN AT THE SECOND
FLOOR IN TRANSITION TO MULTIPLE
PROFILE COLORS OF METAL PANELS
THAT GIVE KIND OF A MODERN
LIGHT LOOK TO THOSE UPPER
LEVELS AND THEN WE USE LARGE
OPENINGS PORTION TO KIND
OF BREAK THAT THAT MASS ALONG
THE URBAN SPACE.
>> THEY'RE JUMPING INTO OUR
FIRST FLOOR PLAN AND SO WE PLAN
ON FOURTH.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY TWO TWO WAY
ENTRY FOR WE'RE REDUCING THAT
DOWN TO ONE ONE WAY ENTRY WHERE
WE HIT SIXTEEN PARKING SPACES,
TWO OF WHICH WILL BE EBBE
PARKING LOT WILL BE SHARED
PARKING OR SHARED CAR SPACES
FOR THE RESIDENTS AND THEN THE
REMAINING PARKING IS MEANT TO
BE USED FOR PUBLIC.
TWO ADDITIONAL SPOTS ARE AS
WELL KIND OF MANAGING GENERATOR
WASTE TRANSFORMERS.
ALL OF OUR KIND OF SERVICES ARE
KIND OF HELD BACK UP THE ALLEY
AS A TWO WAY DRIVING OUT OF THE
ALLEY AT OUR MAIN LEVEL.
AS I SAID BEFORE, WE'RE SET
BACK THIS HATCHET AREA THE SET
BACK FROM THE PUBLIC WAY.
THIS IS OUR MAIN PRESIDENTIAL
ENTRY AND WE LIKE THAT THAT'S
SORT OF PLACED ON AT THE CORNER
IN OUR POST PUBLIC SPACE
COMMUNITY AND OUR SPACE IS DOWN
AT GREAT LARGE OPENINGS TO KIND
OF MATCH THE COMMERCIAL
SURROUNDING AREAS KIND
OF PINKISH SPACE ON MY SCREEN
IS THAT CULTURAL COMMUNITY
SPACE WE'RE STILL IN THE
PROCESS OF PLANNING EXACTLY
WHAT THAT WILL BE BUT WE LOVE
IT.
IT'S SET OFF THE CAFETERIA AND
AGAIN HAS THIS KIND OF LARGE
PUBLIC SPACE ON THE FRONT.
>> LOT MORE PROGRAMING FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL.
THIS IS OUR MAIN CORE MAILBOXES
PACKAGES BUT THIS INTERIOR BIKE
PARKING, SOCIAL SERVICES,
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SO REALLY
KIND OF YOUR BASIC NEEDS ARE
MET DOWN ON THIS LEVEL AND THEN
YOU PROCEED UP THROUGH THE
ELEVATORS TO THIS MUCH APPLAUSE
.
THIS IS JUST OUR BASEMENT.
THERE'S A SMALLER BASEMENT ON
ON THE INSIDE THAT WILL NOT
REALLY BE ACCESSED BY CLIENTS
AND RESIDENTS.
THIS IS JUST MECHANICAL STORAGE
,JANITORIAL THEN JUMPING UP TO
THE SECOND FLOOR.
THIS IS THAT ELEVATOR CORE AS I
SAID PREVIOUSLY, IT'S REALLY
MOSTLY ONE BEDROOM AND IT'S
REALLY SIMPLE MODERATE PLANS,
OPEN KITCHENS, PRETTY GENEROUS
LIVING SPACE AND A ONE BEDROOM
OFF OF THAT SPACE.
IT'S ALL VISIBLE.
WE THE DESIGN OVER DEVELOPMENTS
WITH UNIVERSAL ACCESS IN MY AND
THEN WE'RE ABLE TO BRING SOME
UNITS UP FOR EVEN FURTHER
ACCESSIBILITY.
THIS IS THE THE ONE TWO
BEDROOM.
THE REASON THIS CORNER CAN
AFFORD THAT IS THAT WE'RE STILL
STEPPED OUT INTO THAT SECOND OR
MASONRY PORTION OF AND THEN
MOVING UP TO THE BUILDING.
>> YOU SEE WHERE THE BUILDING
STEPS BACK.
WE'RE ALL BEDROOMS HAVE BEEN
THROUGH STACK UP AND THEN I
JUMP UP TO THE SIXTH FLOOR
WHERE THERE'S A SECOND KIND
OF COMMUNITY CORE.
THERE'S AN EXAM CONSULTATION
ROOM.
THIS CAN BE USED FOR PHYSICAL
HEALTH, MENTAL HEALTH EXAMS.
EVERYONE HAS HAD PROGRAMS WHERE
THEY BRING IN OUTSIDE PROGRAMS
THAT THEY USE THE SPACE SHARED
LAUNDRY THAT'S ADJACENT TO
ANOTHER COMMUNITY SPACE, THE
PUBLIC BATHS.
SO WE THINK THIS IS KIND OF THE
MAIN LEVEL AND THEN THERE'S
ALSO THIS THIS KIND OF BUNCH
OF PUBLIC STUFF UP AT THE TOP.
>> A ROOF CURRENTLY HAS A GREEN
ROOF TO KIND OF MITIGATE SOME
OF THE STORM WATER AND WAIT A
MINUTE IN YOUR OWN REGION.
>> OH, SORRY.
OK, SO ALREADY I DO WANT TO HIT
JUST A LITTLE BIT OF OUR GREEN
STRATEGY.
WE ARE DOING NATIONAL GREEN
BUILDING OR GREEN PLUS NET
ZERO.
WE ARE ALL ELECTRIC FULL
DISCLOSURE EXCEPT FOR THE
GENERATOR AND WE HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO EXPLORE ANY OPTIONS
THAT EXIST TO AVOID THAT.
BUT THAT'S THE LOW GAS PIECE
OF OUR PROJECT.
AS I SAID, SOLAR READY PARKING
AND WE'RE ACTUALLY IN THE
PROCESS OF TRYING TO SEE IF WE
CAN MAKE GEOTHERMAL WORK.
WE'RE ACTUALLY EXPLORING USING
THE PUBLIC WAY FOR OUR WELLS
BECAUSE WE OCCUPY OUR SITE SO
COMPLETELY AND WE WANT TO
MAINTAIN SOME ACCESS TO THOSE
WELLS FOR FUTURE EVENTS AND
I'LL WRAP IT UP THERE AND I
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS FROM STAFF
ON THE PROJECT CITY PLANNER
DUILIO IS JOINING US REMOTELY
.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I HAVE WILLIAM STAFF REPORT TO
PROVIDE MOSTLY TO KEEP EVERYONE
ON TRACK THINKING AS I
MENTIONED THIS IS THE ONE
TWENTY ONE CATHERINE STREET
CYCLING PROJECT SITE IS LOCATED
AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF KATHERINE IN NORTH FOURTH
AVENUE.
THE ZONING DESIGNATIONS ARE D
TO WHICH IS THE DOWNTOWN
INTERFACE FOR THE BASE ZONING
DISTRICT.
IT TERRYTOWN CHARACTER OVERLY
ZONING DISTRICT AND IT HAS
SECONDARY STREET FOR A MINUTE
AND MR. SCHROEDER, COULD YOU
STOP SHARING YOUR SCREEN FOR A
MOMENT?
OH YEAH.
WE'RE NOT SEEING WE'RE NOT
SEEING YOUR SCREEN, ALEXIS.
SO THERE I'M SORRY.
GREAT.
>> THANK YOU.
YOU'RE SEEING A PAGE AS A STAFF
REPORT NOW.
>> WE'RE GOOD.
YEP.
GO AHEAD.
THIS WAS THE ONLY SLIDE THAT
YOU MISSED.
SO NORTHWEST CORNER CATHERINE D
TO CARRY TOWN CHARACTER HER
SECONDARY STREET FUNDED SITE IS
A LITTLE LESS THAN 17000 SQUARE
FEET.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IS
LITTLE MORE THAN FIFTY TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT SIX STOREY
SIXTY THREE APARTMENT
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING WITH SOME
GROUND FLOOR COMMERCIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT SERVICE
SPACE.
IT INCLUDES 16 18 PARKING
SPACES UNDERNEATH AND BEHIND
THE BUILDING MORE THE SECOND
SOME NOTABLE DETAILS ABOUT THAT
PROJECT.
>> IT INCLUDES PREMIUM FLOOR
AREA SPECIFICALLY THEY ARE
USING THE AFFORDABLE
RESIDENTIAL UNIT PREMIUM OPTION
WHICH GIVES AN INCREASE OVER
THE TWO HUNDRED PERCENT BASE
THAT THEY ARE AND ALLOWS UP TO
WITH THEIR ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
AFFORDABLE PROJECT.
>> THEY ARE ALLOWED TO GO UP TO
FOUR HUNDRED PERCENT FOR RENT
RATIO.
THEY ARE ALSO USING THE
EXCEPTION OF THE HEIGHT LIMIT
SPECIFIC AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT EXCEPTION THAT
ALLOWS AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS TO EXCEED THE
HEIGHT LIMITS.
THIS ONE IS ONLY EXCEEDING IT
BY ONE FOOT BUT THEY ARE USING
THAT EXCEPTION THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO THEM.
I THINK IT'S WELL COVERED THAT
THIS IS A ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT BUT
IT IS A NOTABLE DETAIL OF THE
PROJECT.
IT ALSO INCLUDES GROUND FOR
MIXED USE.
I THINK MR. SHORTER IS WELL
COVERED .
THE SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS, THE
PARKING THIS PROJECT IS
PROPOSING PUBLIC PARKING.
YOU CAN ALSO GET A PREMIUM FOR
THAT IN THE ONE DISTRICT BUT
NEVER NEVER LET THIS PROJECT
GOING PUBLIC PARKING IT IS A
KEY CONCERN OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD
ABOUT THE LOSS OF THE PUBLIC
PARKING FROM THIS SURFACE
PARKING LOT.
BUT A LOT OF THE BUSINESSES
IT'S ESPECIALLY POPULAR PLACE
TO PARK ON THE FARMER'S MARKET
DAYS AND THIS PROJECT WENT TO
GREAT LENGTHS TO INCLUDE
PARKING PUT BACK PARKING AS
PART OF IT.
>> THERE ARE EIGHTEEN SPACES
SHOWN ON THE PROPOSED FLIGHT
PLAN ON FILE THEY MAY NEED TO
GO DOWN TO SIXTEEN SPACES
BECAUSE THE TWO SPACES CLOSEST
TO THE WALL AND CLOSEST TO
NORTH FOURTH AVENUE ARE
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO ACCESS
FROM NORTH FOURTH AVENUE AND
THE ATTORNEY MOVEMENT MIGHT BE
TOO DIFFICULT SO THOSE SPACES
ARE IN FLUX BUT NEVERTHELESS
THE NUMBER OF SPACES THAT ARE
PROVIDED WILL BE MANAGED BY THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
EXCEPT FOR TWO WHICH WILL BE
RESERVED FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
THAT KATHERINE OOPS SORRY THE
KATHERINE STREET STREETSCAPE
HAS AND PUSHED BACK THE
BUILDING IS HAS A FIVE FOOT SET
BACK.
THEY REQUIRED THAT PARK IS
BETWEEN ZERO AND TEN FEET AND
THIS ALLOWS FOR A LITTLE BIT
MORE SPACE FOR THE AMENITY ZONE
AND THE PUBLIC SIDEWALK ZONE
THAT SIDE OF THE SITE WILL ALSO
HAVE AN ALTERNATIVE PARKLAND
CONTRIBUTION OF SOME BENCHES.
WE DID NOT REQUEST THE NORMAL
PARKLAND CONTRIBUTION WITH THIS
PROJECT BUT WE STILL WANTED
SOME SORT OF PUBLIC
RECREATIONAL TYPE OF MENDI THEN
NORTH FOURTH AVENUE STREETSCAPE
DOES NOT HAVE ANY DOORS.
IT DOES NOT NEED THAT DOOR
SWING AREA THEN BUT THE
STREETSCAPE IS BEING IMPROVED
BY A LITTLE BIT WIDER SIDEWALK
AND A WIDER AMENITY ZONE IF YOU
LOOK AT THE ENTIRE BLOCK TO THE
NORTH OF THIS SITE THERE IS
MORE LAWN SPACE AND THE
SIDEWALK JOGS.
SO THIS WILL IN THE END THIS
PROJECT WILL ALIGN THE CURB
LINE AND SIDEWALK FOR THE
ENTIRE BLOCK OF NORTH AVENUE.
WE HAVE UNUSUAL FOR STAFF BUT
WE HAVE RECOMMENDED A
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL AND WE
HAVE LISTED THE CONDITIONS IN
THE MOTION.
ONE OF THEM HAS ALREADY BEEN
SATISFIED BUT I WILL GO THROUGH
THEM FAIRLY QUICKLY AND JUST
SORT OF EXPLAIN THAT THIS
PROJECT IS VERY CLOSE TO
MEETING ALL OF OUR DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS.
WE HAVE A FAIRLY LONG LEAD TIME
IN ADVERTISING FOR A PUBLIC
HEARING AND WE ADVERTISED FOR
THIS PUBLIC HEARING.
BUT AS IT TURNS OUT, THERE ARE
FEW DETAILS THAT STILL NEED TO
BE ADDRESSED IN GENERAL THEY'RE
MINOR TECHNICAL ISSUES AND THEY
WON'T AFFECT THE LAYOUT OR THE
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM OR WHAT IS
BEING PROPOSED.
SO WE DO COMFORTABLY RECOMMEND
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL.
THE OUTSTANDING ITEMS DEAL WITH
CLARIFYING THE STREET TREES
THAT ARE PROPOSED CONFIRMING
THE EXIT SITE DISTANCE AND
PROVIDING BUMP OUTS ON THE PLAN
A CHANGE TO THE SEQUENCE
OF CONSTRUCTION RECYCLING
COMPACTOR DUMPSTER DETAILS AND
PROVIDING BOLLARDS TO PROTECT
THAT THING.
THERE IS A PUBLIC ACCESS
EASEMENT THAT IS NEEDED AND IS
PROPOSED BUT WE NEED TO NAIL
DOWN SOME OF THAT DOCUMENTATION
AND CLARIFY THE RESTORATION AND
SOME OWNERSHIP INFORMATION
OF THE THINGS THAT ARE GOING
THE RIGHT WAY AND THE REASON IT
WAS LISTED AS A CONDITION
OF APPROVAL TO CONFIRM THE
SANITARY MITIGATION ANALYSIS
THAT WAS ACTUALLY COMPLETED
YESTERDAY.
THERE IS SUFFICIENT DRI
CAPACITY FOR THIS PROJECT BUT
AS TYPICAL THEY'LL NEED TO
PARTICIPATE
IN THE OFFSET
MITIGATION PROGRAM FOR THE WIT
CAPACITY.
THE FIRE MARSHAL MADE A COMMENT
THAT IT'S A LITTLE BIT
RHETORICAL BUT THEY JUST NEED
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARE
BUILDING CODES THAT IMPACT THE
GREEN ROOF, THE GREEN ROOF AND
DEALS WITH THIS SURFACE AREA
THAT IT CAN BE BECAUSE IT IS
VEGETATED MATERIAL THAT IF IT
GETS DRY IT COULD BE A FIRE
HAZARD AND A CONDITION RELATED
TO SHOWING SOME OF THE SIDEWALK
AND AMENITIES ON DESIGN ON THE
SITE PLAN OR ON THE CIVIL
ENGINEERING DRAWINGS.
>> I AM HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
ADDITIONAL FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS
BUT STAFF IS RECOMMENDED
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF THIS
PROJECT AT ONE TWENTY ONE
.
THANKS.
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
WELL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE PRESENT AND THEN WE'LL
MOVE ON TO A REMOTE IF FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER A MEETING I'D NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITIES TAFEL
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HANDS.
YOU'LL HEAR AN ORDER
OF MAINTENANCE.
THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA FOR
EITHER METHOD.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ABOUT THIS
PETITION?
>> HMM.
THIS IS ONE TO EIGHTEEN WAS
KINGSLEE STREET THIS PROJECT
ACTUALLY IS VERY LONG OVERDUE
ONE BECAUSE OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TOO.
I LOVE A PROJECT AND A LOT
OF THE MEMBERS THAT ARE
PARTICIPATE IN THIS PROJECT ARE
HAPPY THAT WHERE THIS LOCATION
IS AS WE ALL KNOW IS
HISTORICALLY BLACK DISTRICT
WHICH IS NOW HAS BECOME PRETTY
HEAVILY GENTRIFIED.
SO WITH THAT SAID, GIVING BACK
TO THAT AREA IS IS SIGNIFICANT
TO US MYSELF MY MY GRANDPARENTS
THE FIRST HOUSE THERE ON WEST
KINGSLY STREET, YOU KNOW ABOUT
DELONG'S BARBECUE PIT OVER
THERE THAT IS NOW BECOMING HIGH
RISE.
SO AS MUCH AS THIS CITY NEEDS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND THAT IN
THAT PARTICULAR AREA A LOT THE
BLACK RESIDENTS HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED FOR MANY REASONS AT
THIS PARTICULAR PROJECT HELPS
TO GIVE BACK AND WE THE LEADERS
ON THE COUNCIL COMMITTEE ARE
VERY MUCH APPRECIATIVE WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION COMING TO
HERE ALLOWING US TO PRESENT
THIS TO YOU.
YOU'RE LISTENING AND HOPEFULLY
THAT BASED ON THE CONDITION
OF APPROVAL THAT YOU APPROVE
THE PROJECT TO GO FORWARD.
WE ARE ACTUALLY IN THE MIDST
OF REALLY NAILING DOWN WHAT
WE'RE GOING TO USE THE TWO
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT AREA AND
THE PINKISH AREA THAT WAS
PRESENTED ON THE SLIDE.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF HUBS, IF
YOU WILL, IDEAS THAT WE WANT TO
USE THAT WOULD ACTUALLY GIVE
BACK TO THE COMMUNITY THAT NOT
ONLY WILL SAY OK, WELL THIS IS
JUST YOU KNOW, TO GIVE BACK TO
THE BLACK COMMUNITY BUT IT IS
TO EMBRACE ALL OF THE DIVERSE
CULTURES AND BACKGROUNDS THAT
WE HAVE IN THIS CITY SO THAT WE
CAN THRIVE AS ONE UNIT AND SO
THIS IS ALL THAT I HAVE TO SAY
TO SHOW YOU THAT HEY, I'M HERE
AND TO GIVE MY SUPPORT IN AND I
PRAY THAT IT ALSO IS A FAVOR
EMANUEL AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION?
>> HI.
ADAM GOODMAN 400 VIRGINIA ONE
MORE TIME BEFORE I MOVE TO MY
CURRENT RESIDENCE I LIVED
BASICALLY AROUND THE CORNER
FROM MILLER MANOR AND YOU KNOW,
NOT ONLY WAS THIS I WAS THERE
FOR EIGHT YEARS AND THIS WAS
NEVER A PROBLEM BUT BUT NOT
ONLY THAT, I WAS ACTUALLY KIND
OF IN AWE OF THAT BUILDING
ABOUT REPRESENTED YOU KNOW,
FIRST OF ALL, IT'S IT'S REALLY
DESIRABLE PLACE IN ANN ARBOR.
IT'S CLOSE TO DOWNTOWN.
IT'S NEXT TO ONE OF OUR NICEST
PARKS THAT WE PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE PUBLIC HOUSING IN
OUR COMMUNITY, NOT JUST ADD IN
A VARIETY OF LOCATIONS NOT JUST
AT THE SORT OF FRINGES NEAR THE
HIGHWAY.
RIGHT, RIGHT.
AND THEN I WENT THROUGH AN
URBAN COMMUNITY ACADEMY AND I
WAS PART OF THAT GO TO A TOUR
OF THE FACILITY AND AN
EXPLANATION OF WORKS FROM SOME
OF THE FOLKS WHO ARE IN THE
ROOM TONIGHT AND THAT JUST BLEW
MY MIND EVEN MORE, YOU KNOW,
LEARNING ABOUT THAT.
IT'S IT'S NOT JUST WE'RE
PROVIDING HOUSING.
IT'S PERMANENT SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING WHICH ONLY WORKS IN IN
COOPERATION AND PARTNERSHIP
WITH PRIVATE NON-PROFITS LIKE
AVALON HOUSING.
WE ARE ENSURING THAT THE MOST
VULNERABLE PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY CAN HAVE A PLACE TO
LIVE AND ALL OF THE SERVICES
THAT THEY NEED TO STAY HOUSE
THIS SORT OF THING YOU KNOW,
I'M OFTEN AT THIS PODIUM OR
CALLING IN VIRTUALLY
COMPLAINING ABOUT THINGS IN ANN
ARBOR THAT WE'RE NOT DOING
ENOUGH.
BUT THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
REALLY MAKES ME PROUD TO BE AN
INCORPORATED I'M I THINK IT'S
AMAZING.
OF COURSE WE'RE NOT DOING
ENOUGH.
WE NEED MORE.
AND THIS CATHERINE PROJECT YOU
KNOW, I THINK IT YOU KNOW, IT'S
MANY OF THE THINGS I JUST SAID
BUT IT'S ALSO NEW AND IT'S SO
MUCH MORE CHALLENGING TO BUILD
AFFORDABLE PUBLIC HOUSING NOW
THAN IT WAS IN THE SORT
OF FEDERAL POLICY ENVIRONMENT
BACK WHEN A PLACE LIKE MILLER
MANOR WAS BUILT.
AND SO IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE
DOING THIS.
I'M SO EXCITED IF I HAD TO IF I
HAD TO NIT PICK ONE THING, IT
WOULD BE THE PARKING.
IF YOU LOOK AROUND THE
KOREATOWN AREA, SO MUCH OF IT
SO MUCH OF THE GROUND LEVEL
SPACES USED UP BY CAR STORAGE
AND I THINK IT'S A LITTLE BIT
RIDICULOUS HONESTLY SO AND AND
NEW DEVELOPMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CHANGE THIS AND
WE KEEP SEEING NEW DEVELOPMENT
NOT DO THAT.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S THE 15
DETROIT PROJECT WHICH MOST
OF THE GROUND FLOOR IS PARKING
AND THIS I GUESS HALF HALF
OF THE LOT IS GOING TO BE
PARKING.
IT'S LIKE FOUR BLOCKS FROM THE
TRANSIT CENTER NEXT TO ONE
OF OUR BRAND NEW BIKEWAYS.
I REALLY JUST DON'T SEE THAT
IT'S NECESSARY.
BUT IN A SPIRIT OF NOT LETTING
THE PERFECT BE THE ENEMY OF THE
GOOD, I DON'T THINK THAT'S A
REASON TO OPPOSE THIS TONIGHT.
I JUST HOPE IN THE FUTURE WE
CAN DO BETTER.
THANK THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO ONCE AGAIN.
SCOTT TRUDEAU FIVE TO SIX NORTH
MEAN I AM A NEARBY NEIGHBOR
OF THIS PROJECT.
I LIVE ABOUT A THOUSAND FEET
FROM THE SITE AND I'M HERE TO
EXPRESS ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT
AND WELCOME OUR FUTURE OUR NEW
NEIGHBORS.
I'M VERY HAPPY TO SEE THIS
MOVING FORWARD.
I PARTICULARLY APPRECIATE THE
WORK THAT HAS BEEN DONE TO
ENGAGE WITH BLACK RESIDENTS AND
FORMER RESIDENTS WHO HAVE BEEN
DISPLACED FROM THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AS WE'VE LEARNED
ABOUT AND REALLY IGNORED THAT
REALITY AND TAKE ONE SMALL STEP
IN REPAIRING THE DAMAGE WE'VE
DONE IS WE'VE THE CITY HAS
GROWN DEMAND FOR LIVING HAS
GROWN AND WE HAVEN'T MADE ROOM
FOR PEOPLE AND WE DON'T MAKE
ROOM FOR PEOPLE.
THEN PEOPLE GET PUSHED OUT AND
THE PEOPLE WHO GET PUSHED ARE
THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE THE LEAST
MEANS AND THE LEAST ACCESS AND
HAVE FACED OTHER SYSTEMIC
OPPRESSION IN THE PAST.
AND SO WE'VE DONE THAT OVER AND
OVER AND OVER AGAIN THROUGH THE
HISTORY OF THE CITY TO COME UP
WITH ALL KINDS OF REASONS WHY
WE CAN'T DO SOMETHING.
SO I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS IS A
STEP GOING IN THE OTHER
DIRECTION.
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO APPROVE
IT.
WE ALSO ARE LONGTIME NEIGHBORS
OF ANOTHER AVALON SUPPORTIVE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT RIGHT NEXT
DOOR TO US AND WE ARE HAPPY TO
HAVE ALL THE AVALON TENANTS
NEIGHBORS AS I WROTE IN
RESPONSE TO A PROPOSED PROJECT
IN TEXTA A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO
THAT IN PARTICULAR WE
APPRECIATE LIVING IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH OUR IN
RAISING OUR DAUGHTER AND OUR
FAMILY WHERE SHE CAN SEE THAT
SHE AN INTRINSIC SENSE OF WHO
BELONGS LIKE WHO BELONGS IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
EVERYBODY WE MAKE SPACE FOR
EVERYBODY DESPITE THEIR
BACKGROUNDS, YOU KNOW,
DIFFERENT STRUGGLES, DIFFERENT
CHALLENGES.
EVERYBODY HAS A PLACE.
>> SO LET'S CREATE MARVELOUS
PLACES.
THANK YOU.
>> ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT?
WE HAVE FOLKS THAT ARE LINED UP
.
WE DO WE ARE TOLD WORLD
CURRENTLY FIVE PEOPLE IN THE
QUEUE TO CHOOSE SIX PEOPLE TO
SPEAK ON ASYLUM, THE FIRST
OF WHICH IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> HELLO, THIS IS ADAM
MISCAVIGE CALLING FROM
FORESWORE FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS
VEGAS STRIKE.
I SUPPORT THE PROPOSED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
AT 121 CAFER I'M VERY HAPPY
THAT THE NUMBER OF HOUSING
COMMISSION HAS PARTNERED WITH
THE AVALON HOUSING TO BRING
THIS DEVELOPMENT FORWARD.
WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS AND
BUILDING HIGH QUALITY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WITH
DOWNTOWN IN AN EXTREMELY
DESIRABLE AREA WHERE IT IS
CLOSE TO JOBS, TRANSPORTATION
AND DAILY NEEDS IS ESSENTIAL.
WE ALSO LIVE WE'RE ALSO IN A
CLIMATE CRISIS SO HOUSING
PEOPLE IN A SITUATION WHERE
THEY MAY NOT NEED TO DRIVE A
PERSONAL CAR EVERY DAY IS ALSO
IMPORTANT.
THIS SITE IS IDEALLY LOCATED
NEAR TRANSIT AND ON OUR GREAT
NEW DOWNTOWN HIGHWAY NETWORK.
THANK YOU TO THE ANNENBERG
HOUSING COMMISSION JENNIFER
HALL AND OF COURSE THE AVALON
HOUSING FOR MAKING THIS
POSSIBLE
FOR ALL THE IMPORTANT
WORK THAT YOU DO, I WOULD SAY
HE IS A HUMAN RIGHT.
THIS IS WHY I VOTED FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE TO
THE HOUSING COMMISSION TO
LEVERAGE A PORTION OF MY TAX
DOLLARS INTO BUILDING AS MUCH
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AS POSSIBLE.
THIS IS ALSO WHY I SUPPORT
AVALON HOUSING AVALON AND THEIR
RESIDENTS ARE AN IMPORTANT PART
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND I'M
GRATEFUL TO HAVE THEM HERE.
I BELIEVE IN AVALON'S MISSION
SO EARLIER TODAY I MADE A
DONATION TO AVALON HOUSING.
I ENCOURAGE OTHERS TO DO SO AS
WELL AND PLEASE APPROVE THIS
PROJECT TONIGHT.
THANK THANK YOU.
THE NEXT PERSON IN THE QUEUE IS
COLOR WITH PHONE NUMBER ENDING
IN FOUR ZERO THREE YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO SPEAK
.
WE CAN WE CAN HEAR BOTH OF THEM
THANK YOU.
.
Q HI WARD AND MILD DUE WEST
THANK YOU.
OF THIS IS AND ALWAYS WILL BE
Q HI WARD AND MILD DUE WEST
VERY ADEQUATELY SUPPORTED.
OF THIS IS AND ALWAYS WILL BE
>> IT WILL ALL BE THE NEXT DAY.
VERY ADEQUATELY SUPPORTED.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
>> IT WILL ALL BE THE NEXT DAY.
REALLY SUPPORT THIS.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THE
REALLY SUPPORT THIS.
HARD WORK THAT HAS GONE INTO
I REALLY APPRECIATE ALL THE
DEVELOPING THIS.
HARD WORK THAT HAS GONE INTO
I WISH IT TWICE AS TALL OF THE
DEVELOPING THIS.
BUILDING BUT I DON'T WANT TO
I WISH IT TWICE AS TALL OF THE
LET THAT STOP ME FROM
BUILDING BUT I DON'T WANT TO
SUPPORTING IT SO I GUESS I'LL
LET THAT STOP ME FROM
JUST SAY A WORD SUPPORT ONE
SUPPORTING IT SO I GUESS I'LL
MORE TIME AND THANK YOU FOR
JUST SAY A WORD SUPPORT ONE
YOUR TIME AND AGAIN THANK
MORE TIME AND THANK YOU FOR
EVERYONE FOR THEIR EFFORT.
YOUR TIME AND AGAIN THANK
THANK YOU.
EVERYONE FOR THEIR EFFORT.
THE NEXT CALLER IS PHONE NUMBER
THANK YOU.
ENDING AND TWO SEVEN FOUR YOU
THE NEXT CALLER IS PHONE NUMBER
HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
YOU
MAY NEED TO PRESS STAR AMCO
MOSCHINO AND I'M CALLING FROM
THE WORLD OF IN ORDER OH ALSO
THROUGH THE END OF A COMMUNITY
ACADEMY ON THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN RESOURCES ADVISORY BOARD
AND SEVEN FALLOWING THE HOUSING
CRISIS IN ANN ARBOR VERY
CLOSELY ON I'M CALLING BECAUSE
I WANTED TO SAY THAT I'M ALL
ABOUT THE COMMITMENT THAT THE
CITY WILL HAVE TO REALLY
BEGINNING TO STEP UP TO PROVIDE
HOUSING TO THE VULNERABLE
POPULATION IN IT OR WHERE WE
NEED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DOWNTOWN.
I THINK THAT THIS IS A FABULOUS
DEVELOPMENT AS PEOPLE THAT'D BE
GREAT IF IT WERE TALLER AND
COULD AFFORD HOUSING BUT REALLY
IS COMING AND THAT IS THERE AND
I BELIEVE THAT A GREAT JOB AND
AS A GREAT COMMUNITY PARTNER
AND I JUST WANTED TO CALL IN
AND SAY THAT I REALLY SUPPORT
THIS PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
THE THE NEXT CALLER IS PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN NINE FIVE FIVE
EUPOL ISCHEMIA SPEAK
GOOD
EVENING KIRK WESTFALL AGAIN.
>> THIRTY FIVE OR FIVE CHARTER
PLANE TICKET CALLING TO SUPPORT
THIS PROJECT SUPEREXCITED FOR
WHAT IT'S WORTH AND FOR THE
FUTURE OF OTHER CITY INITIATED
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS DOWNTOWN
ON AND OUTSIDE OF DOWNTOWN I
HOPE THAT THIS MIGHT EVEN
INSPIRE OTHER GOVERNMENT
ENTITIES IN THE AREA TO MAKE
BETTER USE OF THEIR LAND AS
WELL AND AS WE MOVE FORWARD
WITH IT I THINK THE BUILDING
LOOKS LIKE A WELL LAID OUT AND
FUNCTIONING AND ATTRACTIVE
ADDITION.
>> I I REALLY HOPE THAT THE
PETITIONER FIND A VIABLE
COMMERCIAL TENANT THAT WILL BE
AN ENHANCEMENT TO THE RESIDENT
AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD THE GROUND
FLOOR AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
REALLY CAME OUT OF THE PUBLIC
SESSION.
>> AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, MY
FEAR IS THAT IF THERE AREN'T
DEFINITIVE PLANS FOR THE GROUND
FLOOR SPACES THAT THEY'LL
EVENTUALLY BE USED FOR STORAGE
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT AND YOU
KNOW THAT OBVIOUSLY B B, B
ASHAME I THINK JUST A WORD
ABOUT THE PROCESS.
SPEAKING OF PUBLIC FEEDBACK, I
THINK IT'S A SIGNIFICANT
PROBLEM THAT A MERCHANT GROUP
WAS ABLE TO OVERRIDE WHAT I
PERCEIVED AS FAIRLY UNANIMOUS
PUBLIC SENTIMENT THAT THE
PUBLIC INFORMATION SESSIONS AND
THE FEEDBACK SESSIONS THAT
FOLKS DIDN'T PASS ON HERE MAYBE
A FEW SPOTS WERE RESIDENTS OR
PEOPLE SERVING THE RESIDENTS
BUT THERE ARE LITERALLY
HUNDREDS OF SPOTS AVAILABLE ON
A DAILY BASIS WITHIN TWO BLOCKS
OF THIS.
AND ON TOP OF THAT I THINK IT'S
SIMPLY THE ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUE
FOR US TO EXPOSE THE RESIDENTS
TO IDLING CARS OF PUBLIC
PARKING IN A TERRIBLY
INEFFICIENT USE OF SPACE FOR A
SMALL A SMALL LIKE BUT THAT
THAT MEANS THAT A FANTASTIC
PROJECT ON BALANCE AND REALLY
JUST TO MOVE FORWARD.
>> THANK OUR NEXT CALLER IS ONE
OF THREE REMAINING AS AMANDA
CARLISLE YOU YOU'VE PERMISSION
TO SPEAK MEMBERS.
THIS IS AMANDA CARR.
I LIVE AT SIXTEEN NINETEEN
WALTHAM DRIVE AND I SERVE AS
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
WASHTENAW HOUSING ALLIANCE
WHICH IS A NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION WORKING AS A
COALITION OF A NUMBER
OF ORGANIZATIONS TO END
HOMELESSNESS IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY AND HIS OFFICE IS
ACTUALLY ACROSS FROM THE
KATHERINE STREET SITE PROPOSED
FOR DEVELOPMENT AS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BY ABBERLINE.
THE HOUSING ALLIANCE SUPPORTS
THE KATHERINE STREET PROPOSAL
THAT HAS BEEN DEVELOPED AND IT
LOOKS LIKE WHAT WE SEE IS THE
STAFF RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
WITH CONDITIONS WHICH SEEM
PRETTY MINOR AND THAT CAN BE
MET.
SO AS YOU ALL KNOW, WE HAVE A
GREAT NEED.
IT'S BEEN TALKED ABOUT A LOT
TONIGHT FOR NEW HOUSING AND
PARTICULARLY AFFORDABLE AND
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WITH THE
LOVASTATIN LEVELS AND THE SITE
IS TRULY IDEAL FOR ITS LOCATION
AND NEAR THE TRANSIT CENTER AND
BUS ROUTES BUSINESSES MEETING
BOTH EMPLOYEES AND PATRONS AND
THE MANY SERVICES DOWNTOWN AND
NEARBY FUTURE RESIDENTS OF THE
SITE WILL HAVE A WONDERFUL NEW
HOME IN A LOCATION THAT CAN'T
BE BEAT.
IT IS MY HOPE THAT THIS PROJECT
MOVES FORWARD TONIGHT WITH THE
NECESSARY SITE PLAN APPROVALS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK YOU.
A NEXT CALLER IS LUIS VASQUEZ.
YOU PERMISSION TO SPEAK?
>> UH, THANK YOU.
YOUR NEIGHBOR PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK AGAIN.
I THINK THIS IS A NO BRAINER
AND I WOULD JUST ALSO LIKE TO
ECHO THE SENTIMENTS THAT MAYBE
THIS PROJECT SHOULD BE TALLER
AND I MEAN YOU CAN ALWAYS
REPURPOSE PARKING, RIGHT?
IF YOU FIND OUT THAT IT'S NOT
REALLY TRULY PROVIDING BENEFIT
TO THE PROJECT.
SO YEP, THE GENERAL SUPPORT ALL
THE WAY GET THIS THING BUILT.
>> WE REALLY NEED PROJECTS LIKE
THIS.
CALL ME PRAST WHAT WHAT I'VE
SEEN PRESENTED SO FAR BUT ONCE
AGAIN BUILD IT UP, BUILD IT ALL
BUILD INSTALL THERE IS PARKING
CLOSE BY ANY APARTMENT CLOSE BY
A STRUCTURE THAT'S
UNDERUTILIZED WITHIN WALKING
DISTANCE OF THIS DEVELOPMENT I
MEAN AND IT'S ON EVERYTHING SO
THANK YOU.
HAVE A GREAT NIGHT.
I URGE YOU ALL TO SUPPORT THIS
PROJECT.
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
THE LEFT HAND RAISED IS ALEX
LOWE GIVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI THIS IS ALEX LOWER STILL
CALLING IN FROM THE BAG FOR A
BIT OF ADDITIONAL HISTORY ON
THE SPOT AND IN ADDITION TO THE
WELL-KNOWN HISTORY OF TERRYTOWN
AND LUXEMBOURGISH AT THE TURN
OF THE 20TH CENTURY, THIS IS AT
THIS LOCATION AT 121 CATHERINE
STREET BLACKSMITHS IN 1928 HAD
BECOME THE HOME.
AMONG OTHER THINGS THE WERE
PACKING COMPANY BY THE 1930S IT
WAS THE END OF A GERMAN
WASHTENAW COUNTY PREMIER
MANUFACTURER OF IT HAD AN
EXCITING AND DYNAMIC HISTORY
UNTIL
SIXTY YEARS AND ONE WEEK
AGO WHEN DESTRUCTION CAME TODAY
THIS FIGHT IS YET ANOTHER
CREATION LUNAR SURFACE THE
1960S MADE OF SO MANY AMERICAN
A IN THE FABRIC OF OUR
COMMUNITY A PATIENT TO THE
SOUTH, ANOTHER THAT IS PARKING
LOT TO THE NORTHEAST YOU
GUESSED IT A SERVICE INTO THE
WEST.
THE DRY IT AND A GAS STATION, A
DISSATISFIED PARKING LOT,
PARKING LOTS, A BEAUTIFUL URBAN
FOREST POCKMARKED WITH METEOR
STRIKES OVER FIFTY YEARS.
>> SO IT'S WONDERFUL TO SEE
THIS PROPERTY FINALLY BEING
REPAIRED.
THIS IS SUCH A FANTASTIC
PROJECT.
BUT WHY ARE WE ONLY LIMITING
OURSELVES TO SIX FLOORS AND A
SMALLER FOOTPRINT THAN THEY ARE
NOW?
>> THE DAIRY AS OPPOSED TO THIS
PARK THAT WAS COVERED UNDER TWO
PERCENT OF THE OVER A THOUSAND
PARKING SPACES WITHIN A THREE
MINUTE WALK THAT TWO PERCENT
REALLY GOING TO MAKE THE
DIFFERENCE AND I THINK I TRULY
BELIEVE THAT AVALLONE ARE DOING
THE VERY BEST THAT THEY CAN
GIVEN THE RESTRICTIONS THE CITY
PLACED ON THE SITE AND I ADMIRE
WORK.
I THINK THE PUBLIC COMMENT SO
FAR HAS BEEN UNANIMOUSLY IN
FAVOR OF THIS PROJECT.
SO YES, I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
THE CITY.
HOW DO WE GET MORE HOW DO WE
ALLOW THE NEXT WONDERFUL
PROJECT LIKE THIS TO BE BIGGER,
TO BE MORE SUPPORT AND TO THE
COMMUNITY AND TO MAKE EVEN MORE
OF A DIFFERENCE THAN THIS ONE
IS MAKING?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
SINCE THE LAST CALLER WAS
SPEAKING THERE HAS BEEN ONE
ADDITIONAL HAND RAISED WHICH IS
COLOR ENDING IN SIX FOUR EIGHT.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO DRESS
QUESTION
THIS IS EIGHT THIRTY
SEVEN WESTERN STATES AND I AM
JUST LEARNING ABOUT THIS
PROJECT TONIGHT IN THE MEETING
AND I'M SO EXCITED TO SEE THIS
DEVELOPMENT LOOKS AMAZING AND
LIKE AN AWESOME USE OF THE
STATE.
SO LIKE THE OTHER COLORS BEFORE
APPLYING TO EXPRESS MY SUPPORT
FOR THIS AWESOME AWESOME
DEVELOPMENT MY ONLY COMMENT WAS
THE I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THE
FACADE OF THIS BUILDING
MATCHING BETTER THAT HISTORIC
NATURE OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD IF
ONLY BECAUSE I THINK I WOULD
ACTUALLY ENHANCE THE EXPERIENCE
OF LIVING IN THE BUILDING.
I'M A BIG BELIEVER IN THE WAY
THAT ARCHITECTURE CAN LIFT AND
ELEVATES OUR LIVES AND I I FEEL
LIKE SOMETHING THAT WAS PERHAPS
MORE HARMONIOUS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND A LITTLE BIT
LESS I FEARED MIGHT MIGHT DO
THAT.
AND I GUESS I ALSO WONDER WHAT
GUIDELINES THERE ARE FOR THIS
DISTRICT FOR THE MORE HISTORIC
AREAS THAN OTHERS DOWNTOWN.
BUT FUNDAMENTALLY I JUST WANNA
APPLAUD THEM AND SAY I LOOK
FORWARD TO MORE THINGS COMING
UP IN MY WORK AND GREAT THANKS
.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, I WILL READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION WHICH IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
THE ONE TWENTY ONE CATHERINE
STREET SITE PLAN AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS SUBJECT
TO ADDRESSING OUTSTANDING
SERVICE COMMENTS SUMMARIZED AS
ONE CLARIFY PLAN FOR STREET
TREES TO CONFIRM RUNWAY EXITING
VEHICLE SIGHT DISTANCE AND
PROVIDE BUMPER AT END
OF LOADING ZONE THREE REVISE
SEQUENCE OF CONSTRUCTION
REGARDING CURVING IN FIRST
COURSE OF ASPHALT FOR PROVIDE
DETAILS TO RECYCLE COMPACTOR
DUMPSTER AND ADD PROTECTION
BOLLARDS FOR ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT.
I PROPOSE IN DETAIL A PUBLIC
ACCESS EASEMENT NOTE THE NEED
FOR A TEMPORARY GRADING
EASEMENT TO CLARIFY LIMITS
OF RESTORATION IN ALI AND NOTE
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN FEATURES
AND RIGHT OF WAY SIX SANITARY
MITIGATION APPROVAL SEVEN NOTE
NECESSARY COMPLIANCE FOR GREEN
ROOF AND EIGHT ADJUSTS WIDTH
OF SIDEWALK AND AMENITY ZONE
AND STREET AND STREET LIGHT
SPACING MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITE.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WHITE SO I JUST
WANT TO JUST AGAIN SHARE MY
STRONG SUPPORT FOR THIS
DEVELOPMENT AND I WOULD LOVE TO
JUST TELL A QUICK STORY.
I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR NOW
SINCE 1997 AND I DID NOT KNOW
ABOUT THE SORT
OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
THAT WAS IN RESIDENCE IN
KOREATOWN UNTIL REVEREND ROGER
BROWN WHO'S A MINISTER IN
YPSILANTI BUT GREW UP IN THE
AREA NEAR WHEELER PARK TOOK ME
ON A WALKING TOUR AND IT WAS A
CHANCE FOR US TO GET TOGETHER.
WE MET AT THE FARMERS MARKET
AND HE JUST WALKED ME THROUGH
AND POINTED OUT EVERYTHING
INCLUDING HIS CHILDHOOD HOME
WHERE THERE I GUESS WAS A HOG
FARM, THE JUNKYARD WE WALKED
ALL THE WAY TO THE ARGUELLO
CASCADE AND OVER THE BRIDGE AND
BACK WHICH I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW
YOU COULD GET TO AT THAT TIME
HAVING LIVED HERE FOR ALMOST A
DECADE AND THEN THAT SENT ME ON
A JOURNEY A JOURNEY OF LEARNING
ABOUT THE CONTRIBUTION OF OUR
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY.
THE THEIR PLACEMENT IN
KOREATOWN AND THE VERY NATURE
THAT ALMOST ALL THE BUILDING
MATERIALS THAT CAME IN THROUGH
THE TRAINS HAD TO BE OFFLOADED
AND THEN CARTED AND TAKEN
THROUGH THIS AREA TO BUILD OUT
THE REST OF OUR CITY.
AND SO IT'S MY PLEASURE IT'S MY
JOY TO SIT HERE AT THIS TABLE.
MR. DAVIS, THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR THE WORK THAT YOU HAVE DONE
AND LEADING THE THE THE
COMMUNITY AND GETTING FEEDBACK
.
I THINK THAT THAT'S A SIGN A
GOOD SIGN OF HOW WE CAN GET
GOOD COMMUNITY SUPPORT AND
FEEDBACK.
WE JUST HAD A PRESENTATION AT
OUR WORKING SESSION ABOUT THE
FACT THAT THE MOST PEOPLE THAT
WE HEAR FROM PRESENT COMPANY
EXCLUDED ARE WHITE WEALTHY
LANDOWNERS.
AND SO IT'S REALLY I'M JUST SO
GRATEFUL TO SEE THAT YOU TOOK A
DIFFERENT APPROACH WITH THIS.
I'M GRATEFUL THAT YOU ARE
RECLAIMING THIS SPACE AND
BUILDING HOUSING AND I THINK I
ASKED IN OUR PRE SESSION WHY
DIDN'T YOU BUILD IT BIGGER?
AND SO I DO HAVE A QUESTION
WHICH IS IF I REMEMBER
CORRECTLY, YOU'RE NOT BUILDING
IT BIGGER BECAUSE YOU HAVE
MAXED OUT YOUR FUNDING AND THEN
I'M GOING TO JOIN THE CHORUS
AGAINST THE PARKING AND I IN
ADDITION TO MY SUPPORT FOR
THIS, I ALSO TALKED TO SOME
OF THE BUSINESS OWNERS IN
KOREATOWN TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THE CONCERNS WERE AND I
APPRECIATE THAT YOU ALL ARE
TAKING IT ON YOURSELF TO PUT
THIS PARKING HERE.
BUT I ACTUALLY THINK IT'S AN
ISSUE OF THE CITY THAT THE CITY
NEEDS TO ADDRESS THE FACT THAT
WE DON'T DO A GOOD ENOUGH JOB
OF HIGHLIGHTING WHERE THERE IS
PARKING FOR PEOPLE WHO COME OUT
OF TOWN.
I LIVE HERE.
I KNOW HOW TO AVOID PAYING FOR
PARKING EVERYONE TO REALLY PARK
AT THE CATHOLIC PARKING LOT
THAT'S UP THE STREET AND I'LL
TAKE THE HEAT ON THAT BECAUSE
IT SITS EMPTY ON MOST SATURDAYS
.
BUT I DON'T THINK YOU ALL
SHOULD HAVE TO BEAR THAT
RESPONSIBILITY.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD BE
SETTING ASIDE SIXTEEN SPACES
FOR CAR STORAGE EVEN THOSE
WOULD BE FUN GENERATING CAR
STORAGE.
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE GIVEN
OVER TO YOU COMPLETELY.
AND SO IF ANYONE FROM THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM CAN JUST HELP
US UNDERSTAND CAN IF YOU DIDN'T
HAVE TO DO THE PARKING DO YOU
HAVE ENOUGH MONEY TO PUT
SOMETHING ELSE IN THERE OR DO
YOU HAVE TO DO THE PARKING
BECAUSE YOU HAVE RUN OUT
OF MONEY?
AND I THINK THAT'S MY QUESTION
.
>> I'M GOING TO ACTUALLY
RESPOND TO PARTIALLY TO THE
MONEY THING FIRST IN THE TYPE
FINANCING THAT WE USE FOR THIS
SITE.
WE DO HAVE DELAYER LIKE THE TEN
LAYER CAKE OF DIFFERENT KIND
OF CAPITAL STACKS OF FINANCING
WHICH IS NOT UNUSUAL BUT IN
PARTICULAR FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THE LARGEST SOURCE IS LOW
INCOME HOUSING TAX CREDIT.
IT'S BECOMING A SMALLER AND
SMALLER PORTION OF THIS SITE
BECAUSE OF OUR COST
OF CONSTRUCTION HAVE GONE UP SO
SIGNIFICANTLY.
SO IT DOES MAKE ME WONDER ABOUT
THE BRAIN DAMAGE OF GOING
THROUGH THAT PROCESS FOR 13
MILLION DOLLARS INSTEAD OF IT
BEING HALF OF OUR COST.
IT'S YOU KNOW, LIKE TWENTY
PERCENT OF OUR COST BUT THAT
DOES LIMIT THE HEIGHT.
IS IT SUCH A THING?
IT'S LIKE THE NUMBER OF UNITS
AND THE TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COST
BECAUSE OF THE FOOTPRINT
OF THAT SITE IT DOES LIMIT US
TO A FIVE OR SIX STOREY
BUILDING AND ONCE OUR
CONSTRUCTION COSTS CAME IN IT
MADE EVEN HARDER AND BECAUSE
OF A VARIETY OF AND I APOLOGIZE
ANGELA BECAUSE I SAID IT WASN'T
THE CITY BUT IT IS CITY
REGULATIONS THE LAYERS AND
LAYERS OF REGULATIONS THAT THE
CITY PUTS ON OUR PROJECT REALLY
MADE THE COST OF BEING FURTHER
.
AND SO ONE OF THE THINGS WE HAD
TO CHANGE WAS THE FACADE OF THE
BUILDING.
IT'S MUCH FLATTER CLEANER ON
ATTRACTIVE.
I AM HOPING WHAT WE DO WITH IT
AS ONE PERSON WHO HAS CONTROL
OVER THAT IS HAVE MORE ARTISTIC
DESIGN TO IT AFTER IT'S BUILT
SO IT ISN'T SO PLAIN RELATED TO
ALL OF THAT RELATED TO THE
PARKING.
THE PARKING IS NOT A COSTLY
PART OF OUR SITE.
THERE IS DEFINITELY STRONG
OPINIONS ON BOTH SIDES.
ANGELA WAS JUST TELLING US HOW
SHE WISHED IT WAS DEDICATED FOR
TENANTS TO BE ABLE TO USE AND
WE'VE HEARD THAT FROM SOME
OF OUR OTHER CLERGY MEMBERS WHO
WOULD LIKE IT NOT TO BE PUBLIC
PARKING BUT WOULD STILL LIKE
THERE TO BE PARKING THERE.
I SEE IT AS A AS A IN SOME WAYS
FLEXIBLE
SPACE.
I THINK ONE OF THE CALLERS SAID
YOU COULD DO SOMETHING WITH IT
LATER AND I KIND OF VIEW IT
THAT WAY AS WELL IS LIKE
SPILLING OUT OF THIS FIRST
FLOOR SPACE THAT WE SEE IS A
VERY VIBRANT AREA CAN BE A LOT
OF ACTIVITIES.
IT CAN SPILL OUT INTO THAT LOT.
IT WOULD BE NICE IF THERE WAS
SOME FLEXIBILITY IN HOW WE USE
THAT IN THE FUTURE.
>> I AGREE.
>> DOES THAT ANSWER ALL OF YOUR
QUESTIONS?
I MEAN YES, IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE GOING TO KEEP THE
PARKING.
>> I WAS HOPING YOU'D GIVE ME
ANOTHER SOMEONE TOLD ME I CAN'T
HAVE PARKING THERE.
I WOULD NOT HAVE PARKING THERE
.
YOU CANNOT HAVE PARKING THERE.
I'LL STAY BECAUSE I'LL PROBABLY
BE ANSWERING COMMISSIONER CLARK
SO THANKS AGAIN FOR COMING OUT
TONIGHT.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
ESPECIALLY SUCH A CENTRAL
LOCATION ACTIVATED AND
DEVELOPED MATCH BY AN
ORGANIZATION THAT'S REPEATEDLY
DEMONSTRATED IN INVESTMENTS
COMMUNITY OVER 30 YEARS AND
IT'S JUST REALLY COOL TO THINK
ABOUT THAT THAT OVER THIRTY
YEARS ORGANIZATION YOU KNOW,
VOLUNTEER STAFF AND THE TENANTS
HAVE WORKED TOGETHER TO SET
GOLD STANDARD ON THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN EVEN NATIONALLY
RECOGNIZED FOR AFFORDABLE AND
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING.
SO WE'RE REALLY LUCKY TO BE
HAVING AVALON BUILT THIS YEAR
AND ESPECIALLY THE YOU KNOW,
THEY KIND OF LIVE THE VALUES
OF KINDNESS, OPENNESS, RADICAL
ACCEPTANCE AND IT REALLY
REPRESENTS THE BEST OF ANN
ARBOR AND PUTTING THAT IN A
CENTRAL LOCATION AGAIN IS
REALLY JUST IMPORTANT.
I KNOW THAT THIS PROCESS HAS
BEEN VERY IN-DEPTH AND HAS
REFLECTED A DEEP UNDERSTANDING
OF EVERLONG THAT AVALON HAS
WITH THEIR TENANTS.
>> I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
INTENTION AS AN EXAMPLE OF THE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT PROCESS.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO STAND UP
HERE FULL TIME.
ONLY ONE QUESTION AT THE END
OF ME.
OH YEAH AND SO YEAH, I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT YOU KNOW, I
THINK IT'S BEEN REALLY
IMPRESSIVE HOW THOUGHTFUL AND
REFLECTIVE OF PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
PROCESS HAS BEEN FOR THE SITE.
IT'S BEEN SENSITIVE TO A
HISTORY IN THE CONTEXT.
I APPRECIATE THE DEEP LISTENING
CENTERING VOICES THAT HAVE
HISTORICALLY BEEN EXCLUDED FROM
THE CITY'S GROWTH AND
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT AND I ALSO
HAVE FULL CONFIDENCE THIS
DEVELOPMENT WILL BE MANAGED FOR
LONG TERM GOOD FOR THE ENTIRE
COMMUNITY INCLUDING CURRENT
FUTURE RESIDENTS OF ALL MEANS
THE SITE IS IDEAL FOR
INCLUSION.
>> ACCESS TO AMENITIES THAT I
HARBOR HAS TO OFFER AND I'M
SURE THAT THIS IS A PROCESS
THAT AND RESPONSIBILITY THE
ABLANA IN OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION IS NOT TAKEN
LIGHTLY.
JUST BEING FAMILIAR WITH YOUR
WORK.
SO YEAH, I'M REALLY EXCITED TO
HAVE THE PROPERTY DEVELOPED THE
STANDARDS.
>> I DO THINK IT'S KIND OF A
FUN FACT MAYBE NOT SO FUN BUT
THE DEVELOPMENTS LIKE THIS THAT
ARE USED PUBLIC SUBSIDIES, TECH
AS YOU MENTIONED EARLIER,
THEY'RE HELD TO HIGHER
STANDARDS, REGULATIONS AND
MARKET RATE DEVELOPMENTS AND SO
THIS IS GOING TO BE A HIGH
QUALITY DEVELOPMENT WITH EVERY
DETAIL THOUGHTFULLY PLANNED OUT
FROM THE EARLIEST AGES.
JUST AN AVALON'S HAS A TRACK
RECORD OF DEMONSTRATING THAT.
NOW WITH ALL THAT SAID, I DO
WANT TO BRING A PARKING AND I
JUST WANT TO GENTLY KIND ASK
FOR CONSIDERATION THE MAKING
SURE THAT THE DESIGN AND
INTERACTION BETWEEN THE HOUSING
RESIDENTS AND THE PARKING IS
CAREFULLY MANAGED, THAT THERE'S
NO UNWANTED INTERACTION BETWEEN
POTENTIALLY SECURITY SERVICES
AND TENANTS AND MAKING SURE
THAT THERE'S CLEAR DELINEATION
OF PRIVATE AND PUBLIC SPACE SO
THERE'S NO CONFUSION OR SO THAT
TENANTS DON'T FEEL LIKE THEIR
SPACES BEING KIND OF VIOLATED
BY THE PUBLIC COMING IN AND OUT
OF PARKING ALSO.
YOU KNOW, AGAIN, I'VE SAID A
LOT ABOUT AVALON JUST HAVING A
TRACK RECORD AND INTENTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT FOR THE BENEFIT
OF THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY AND
REALLY KNOWING AND
UNDERSTANDING THEIR TENANTS SO
THIS IS MORE JUST KIND OF A
LITTLE JUST EXTRA LIKE KIND
OF PUSH I GUESS JUST TO MAKE
SURE THAT ALL THOSE THINGS ARE
THOUGHT OUT WHICH I'M SURE THEY
WILL BE AND THEN THAT LIKE
NOISE POLLUTION SAFETY AND
BUILDING ACCESS ARE GOING TO BE
CAREFULLY SEPARATE AND ASIDE
FROM THAT WELL EVEN INCLUDING
SOME VERY EXCITED TO HAVE THIS
AND I KNOW THAT WILL BE
CAREFULLY STEWARDED.
COMMISSIONER, I WANT TO ECHO
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WAS
BROUGHT UP IN PUBLIC COMMENT
WHICH WAS A QUESTION FOR YOU
HOW DO WE GET MORE OF THIS?
>> AND I WANT TO KNOW THAT I
MEAN YOU HAVE AN AFFORDABLE A
FULLY AFFORDABLE ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING WHICH ARE THINGS THAT
WE THESE ARE THE TWO THINGS
THAT WE REGULARLY ARE ASKING
FOR.
I'LL ALSO NOTE THAT IT'S NET
ZERO READY BUT NOT NOT NET
ZERO.
AND SO CAN YOU TALK TO US A
LITTLE BIT BOTH ABOUT HOW
AFFORDABLE ABOUT THE ALL
ELECTRIC COMPONENT FEEDING THAT
INTO YOUR KIND OF PROGRAM
PERFORM OR WHATEVER THE THING
IS CALLED AND THEN YOU
MENTIONED IN THE IN THE
RESPONSE THAT YOU GAVE TO
COMMISSIONER WHICH ABOUT THE
EXPENSIVE THINGS THAT WE THAT
THE CITY REQUIRES TALK TO US
ABOUT SOME OF THOSE THINGS
BECAUSE YEAH, IF YOU CAN TO THE
EXTENT THAT YOU'RE WILLING BUT
YES.
>> OK, LET ME BREAK THIS DOWN
HEIGHT.
>> I'M GOING TO ASK DARREN TO
COME UP AND STAND NEXT TO ME
AND CORRECT ME IF I'M ON
CERTAIN THINGS HAPPEN TO OUR
DESIGN OF THE BUILDING THE ADD
COST WE ACTUALLY STARTED FROM
UNDERGROUND AND WORKED OUR WAY
UP ONE DAY AND TRIED TO LIST
THOSE AND SO STARTING FROM
UNDERGROUND STORMWATCH WATER
REQUIREMENTS IS A VERY
EXPENSIVE COST TO OUR SITE.
WHAT ARE THE OTHER UNDERGROUND
THE CONNECTION FEES, THE WATER
AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES, THE
FUNDING DRAIN DISCONNECT WATER
MITIGATION FEES THE WHAT ELSE
IS UNDERGROUND ON THE SURFACE
WE HAVE LARGE EXPANSION OF THE
SIDEWALK DEPTH FROM WHAT IT IS
CURRENTLY AND YOU KNOW EACH
OF THESE THINGS IS COMING FROM
A PLACE OF GOOD INTENTION AND
AN ADOPTED DIFFERENT POINTS IN
TIME HISTORICALLY WITH
RECOMMENDATIONS BY CITY COUNCIL
THINGS THAT ARE APPROVED BY
PLANNING COMMISSION OR APPROVED
BY CITY COUNCIL THAT THEY ALL
ADD COSTS LIKE THEY ALL ADD
COSTS FROM THE MATERIAL DESIGNS
OF WHAT WE WANTED IN FIRST
PROPOSED AS OUR MATERIAL ON THE
OUTSIDE OF THE BUILDING THAT
ALLOWED TO THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE HAD
TO REMOVE THAT WE WERE REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT AND WANTED TO
KEEP WAS WE HAD BUILT IN
ORIGINALLY A SIXTH FLOOR
OUTDOOR PATIO.
>> WE WERE REALLY, REALLY,
REALLY PUSHING HARD AGAINST A
FIFTY FIVE FOOT LIMIT THAT'S
ADOPTED BY THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
BUT THE CITY BANABA COULD OR
ANY COMMUNITY COULD OPT OUT
OF IT.
WHAT TRIGGERS A HIGH RISE
BUILDING?
>> THIS IS PART WHERE I NEED TO
TURN AROUND AND SAY WHY THAT
MATTERS.
BUT I KNOW THAT IT IMPACTED THE
DEPTH OF THE FLOOR OF WHAT WE
COULD SUPPORT WHICH SHRUNK THE
CEILINGS IN THE HEIGHT OF THE
HALLWAYS THAT BECAME
UNCOMFORTABLE AND I'LL LET YOU
TALK MORE ABOUT THAT PIECE
OF IT.
>> YOU DON'T NEED ME.
YOU'VE GOT TO.
SO WE HAD TO REMOVE SOMETHING
THAT WAS A FEATURE FOR THE
TENANTS THAT WE REALLY WERE
EXCITED AND LIKED BECAUSE
OF THAT.
SO THERE WERE MANY MORE THINGS
WE'VE GOT A WHOLE LIST OF THEM.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY WHAT
THAT DID WAS FORCE US TO CHANGE
THE FACADE OF THE BUILDING,
REMOVE THE FEATURES THAT WE
ALSO LIKED OF SOME OF THE SO
IT'S NOT SO FLAT.
>> YOU KNOW, SOME OF THE I
DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU CALL IT
WERKSMANS IN ARTICULATION,
ARTICULATE PORTIONS OF THE
BUILDING AND ALSO WE DID HAVE
SOME OUTDOOR PATIO DECKS THAT
WE WERE WE WEREN'T ALL 100
PERCENT SURE HOW THAT WOULD END
UP BEING BUILT BECAUSE IT'S
HARD WHEN YOU ONLY HAVE IT ON
SOME OF YOUR UNITS IN THAT ALL
OF YOUR UNITS, ESPECIALLY WHEN
EVERYBODY'S GETTING SUBSIDIZED
SO EVERYBODY'S PAYING 30
PERCENT OF THEIR INCOME ON
RENT.
SO WE HAD TO MAKE SOME DESIGN
CHANGES THAT I FEEL LIKE MADE
THE BUILDING LESS ATTRACTIVE
AND FELT MORE LIKE A SUBSIDIZED
NOT A MARKET RATE BUILDING
BECAUSE WE HAD SO MANY EXPENSES
THAT WE HAD TO REDUCE TO FIT
WITHIN OUR FUNDING GUIDELINES.
THERE'S A LOT OF OTHER THINGS
TOO BUT THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
BIG ONES AND I KNOW THERE'S
BEEN DISCUSSIONS IN THE CITY IN
THE PAST AND HOPEFULLY IN THE
FUTURE ABOUT IN PARTICULAR THE
CONNECTION FEES IN THE
MITIGATION FEES ARE LIKE TWO
OF THE REALLY EXPENSIVE ITEMS
THAT WERE OFFSET MITIGATION THE
DEVELOPER OFFSET MITIGATION
THAT THERE'S NO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
>> YOU KNOW EVERYBODY IS
TREATED THE SAME SO YEAH,
THERE'S NO WAIVER FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BUT YOU
DIDN'T SKIMP ON GOING ALL
ELECTRIC BECAUSE WE HAD MADE A
COMMITMENT TO DOING THAT JUST
LIKE WE HAD MADE A COMMITMENT
TO DOING AS MUCH PARKING AS WE
COULD FROM TWENTY NINETEEN IN
THE BEGINNING OF ALL THIS
DISCUSSION.
SO I FELT LIKE AS A CITY
EMPLOYEE WHO HAD MADE THAT
PUBLIC COMMITMENT THAT I HAD TO
CONTINUE TO MAKE A COMMITMENT
NOW WHERE WE ARE NOW ON THE
ELECTRIFICATION HERE IS FOR
REAL WHAT HAPPENS ON OUR
PROJECTS WHICH IS IT IS MORE
EXPENSIVE TO DO CERTAIN KINDS
OF INSTALLATION OF YOUR HVAC
SYSTEMS THERE AND I'LL HAVE TO
CORRECT ME LIKE WE ARE LOOKING
AT GEOTHERMAL I THINK SHANNON,
YOU BROUGHT UP THAT PREVIOUS
PROJECT.
IT IS MORE EXPENSIVE TO
INSTALL.
IT IS HARD IT IS HARD ON A
SMALL FOOTPRINT.
WHEN WE LOOKED AT CATHERINE WE
LITERALLY WERE PUTTING IT ON
EVERY SIDEWALK, EVERY UNDER THE
STORM WATER IN THE ALLEYWAY
AND
THAT WAS IT.
>> FOUR HUNDRED FOOT DEPTH SO
YOU COULD DO FEWER WELLS DEEPER
MORE EXPENSIVE EVEN WITH THE
INFORMATION INFORMATION TO IN
INFLATION REDUCTION ACT EVEN
WITH THE INFLATION REDUCTION
ACT OFFSETTING SOME OF THOSE
COST, OUR OPERATING COSTS ARE
GOING TO BE MUCH HIGHER.
WE CAN'T INCREASE OUR RENT TO
COVER THOSE OPERATING COSTS.
WE CAN'T PASS THAT INCREASED
COST OF UTILITIES ONTO OUR
TENANTS AND SO WE HAVE TO GET
MORE SUBSIDY UP FRONT AND SO WE
ALREADY WERE WAY HIGH COST FOR
OUR TOTAL DEVELOPMENT COSTS
RIGHT NOW ARE OUR CURRENT PER
UNIT COST FOR SIX HUNDRED ISH
SQUARE FOOT ONE BEDROOMS IS
FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS A UNIT FOUR YEARS AGO
PRE COVID THOSE SAME UNITS
WOULD HAVE BEEN CLOSER TO
PROBABLY THREE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
SO LIKE THAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
IN A SHORT TIME FRAME OF WHAT
IT IS COSTING AND WHAT'S MAKING
US LOOK AT OUR DESIGN.
AND ONE THING WE DON'T WANT TO
DO IT'S IT'S ONE THING ON WHAT
THE FACADE LOOKS LIKE.
IT'S ANOTHER THING ON WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE AND FEELS LIKE TO
THE TENANTS WHO ARE LIVING
THERE.
SO WE'RE TRYING TO PRESERVE
THAT HIGH QUALITY DESIGN
OF MATERIAL ON THE INSIDE AT
THE VERY LEAST.
A QUICK QUESTION, JENNIFER.
THIS THIS BODY HAS BEEN
CONSIDERING A POTENTIAL
ORDINANCE THAT WOULD REQUIRE
ELECTRIFICATION.
DO YOU HAVE A SENSE OF CAN YOU
QUANTIFY OF THAT 450 PER UNIT
WOULD THAT NUMBER COME DOWN IF
THIS WAS NOT A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING?
IF IT WAS A TYPICALLY GAS
FIRED?
>> AND IF SO, DO YOU HAVE A
SENSE OF HOW MUCH I MEAN THAT'S
A REALLY TOUGH QUESTION TO ASK
AND ANSWER.
IT'S THERE'S SO MANY VARIABLES
THERE BUT I MEAN SO IT MIGHT
NOT COME DOWN BECAUSE
OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS GENERALLY
SPEAKING IT IS LESS EXPENSIVE
TO PUT IN ALL ELECTRIC HEATING
EQUIPMENT AND CAPITAL COSTS.
YEAH, GENERALLY SPEAKING IN THE
RENTAL MARKET THE TENANTS PAY
THE UTILITIES.
SO IF A DEVELOPER SAYING YEAH,
I'M HAPPY TO BE ALL ELECTRIC
BECAUSE IT COSTS THEM LESS
UPFRONT AND THEY DON'T PAY THE
UTILITY BILLS GOING FORWARD SO
WHY WOULDN'T THEY?
THE PROBLEM THEY HAVE IS THAT
IT GETS OUT THERE THAT THEIR
THEIR DEVELOPMENT EXPENSIVE TO
LIVE IN AND THAT'S THE WORD ON
THE STREET SO TO SPEAK AND WELL
THIS IS YOUR RENT BUT THEN
YOU'VE GOT THIS THREE X FIVE X
UTILITY COSTS THAT YOU'D PAY
COMPARED TO A SO AS PART
OF THAT FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND UNIT COST INCLUDE
BUILDING IN A HIGHER SUBSIDY TO
OFFSET THE HIGHER OPERATIONAL
COSTS FOR YOU FOR YOU AS A
OPERATING AGENCY WAS GOING TO
BE BEARING THE COST OF THESE
UTILITIES LONG TERM.
THAT MIGHT NOT BE THE ACTUAL
PHYSICAL COST OF THE UNITS BUT
THAT'S WHAT YOU NEED TO BRING
IN SUBSIDY IN ORDER TO OFFSET
THOSE INCREASED COSTS LONG TERM
.
I WANT TO I ALSO WANT TO COME
BACK TO THE COST OF THE
INSULATION COVER TO COME BACK
TO GEOTHERMAL.
WE HAVE TWO CHOICES MORE
SUBSIDY OR RAISE THE RENTS.
SO WHEN WE HAVE BUILT IN RENT
SUBSIDIES THAT IS NOT RELEVANT.
SO HALF OF OUR UNITS HAVE BUILT
IN RENT SUBSIDIES SO THERE WERE
CHARGING I THINK IT'S THIRTEEN
HUNDRED ISH UNIT.
THE TENANT PAYS THIRTY PERCENT
OF THEIR INCOME SO THEY MIGHT
PAY FIFTY DOLLARS OR THEY MAY
PAY FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS LIKE
THAT MAKES A WHOLE PROJECT WORK
BUT HALF THE UNITS WE DON'T
HAVE PROJECT BASED VOUCHERS ON
THEM AND SO WE'RE LIKE WHAT IS
A REASONABLE AFFORDABLE RENT
THAT ISN'T LAUGHABLE YOU KNOW
IS A THOUSAND DOLLARS
REASONABLE.
WELL THAT STILL FEELS LIKE A
LOT WHEN YOU'RE TRYING TO SAY
YOU'RE DOING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
SO WE'RE LIKE OK, HOW CAN WE
GET THAT DOWN TO SEVEN HUNDRED
OR EIGHT HUNDRED DOLLARS?
YOU HAVE TO HAVE MORE
DEVELOPMENT SUBSIDY BECAUSE YOU
CAN'T HAVE AS MUCH MONEY.
DO YOU HAVE TO PAY BACK TO A
LENDER ESSENTIALLY.
SO IT'S GOT TO BE GRANT MONEY
ON THE GEOTHERMAL QUESTION THAT
HAS GREAT BENEFITS TO THE LONG
TERM OPERATING COSTS IF WE CAN
FIGURE OUT HOW TO PAY FOR IT UP
FRONT.
AND SO IF IF OUR DEVELOPMENT
COSTS CONTINUE TO INCREASE, WE
HAVE TO SOMETHING ELSE.
SO THIS FEDERAL FUNDS
POTENTIALLY WILL OFFSET THE
COST NOW IT'S LIKE CAN WE BUILD
IT?
CAN WE GET ENOUGH OFFSET?
BUT IT STILL DOESN'T LOWER OUR
DEVELOPMENT COST.
IT STILL BRINGS OUR DEVELOPMENT
COST.
IT'S JUST A GREAT SOURCE AT
THAT POINT.
THAT'S WHERE WE'RE STUCK AT
RIGHT NOW INTO JENNIFER'S POINT
YOU NEED A PLACE TO DRILL THOSE
WELLS RIGHT WHEN YOU HAVE THE
BUILDING TAKING UP SO MUCH
SPACE.
THE ONE BENEFIT OF THE PARKING
LOT IS OTHER THAN THE PART
WHERE STORMWATER IS CAN
ACTUALLY PUT IT IN THE PARKING
LOT OF MATT, YOU'RE LOOKING AT
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY TO PUT IT
GEOTHERMAL WELL WHICH RIGHT NOW
WE DON'T HAVE PERMISSION TO DO
BUT WE'RE TALKING TO OSHA ABOUT
LOOKING INTO THAT SO THIS
CHALLENGE IS ALL AROUND AND
GOING BACK TO THE BUILDING
HEIGHT THING, WHICH IS WHAT I
THINK YOU WERE TRYING TO GET ME
TO SAY IS THAT PEOPLE SAY WHY
NOT BUILD A TALLER BECAUSE WE
REALLY, REALLY, REALLY, REALLY
DON'T WANT TO BE A HIGH RISE
AND THAT'S WHAT WE THAT'S WHY
WE CALCULATED DOWN TO THE ROAD
LEVEL THAT WE'RE MEASURING OUR
BUILDING HEIGHT PER BUILDING
CODE AND MICHIGAN MAY NOT KNOW
THIS IS THE ONLY STATE IN THE
COUNTRY THAT HAS A DEFINITION
OF HIGHER THAN FIFTY FIVE FEET
EVERY OTHER STATE IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> SEVENTY FIVE FEET.
BUT DID I ALSO WE JUST HAVE
NOT.
THAT'S CORRECT WITH THE CITY
COUNCIL CAN PASS A RESOLUTION.
>> THERE ARE A COUPLE OF CITIES
NO LISA SAYS NO MORE NO MORE
BATHROOMS, KITCHENS, BUILDING
SIDE CONVERSATION LATER.
>> THANK YOU FOR KIND
OF OPENING THAT UP FOR US.
I KNOW BECAUSE THESE ARE THE
THINGS THAT WE REGULARLY HEAR
AND SO I REALLY APPRECIATE KIND
THE NUANCED DISCUSSION.
>> THANK AND JUST ONE LAST
THING GEOTHERMAL.
WE HAVE A MUCH TALLER BUILDING.
WE HAVE MANY CHALLENGES ON
MAKING IT FINANCIALLY FEASIBLE
AT THREE FIFTY SO FIFTH IT'S
MIXED INCOME.
THREE HUNDRED IF ISH UNITS
LITERALLY ARE GEOTHERMAL MAP
WHICH IS OUR SITE LET'S SAY
THIS IS OUR SITE THE BLAKE
TRANSIT CENTER SITE FOURTH
AVENUE, FIFTH AVENUE THERE ARE
WELLS EVERY SINGLE SIDEWALK,
EVERY SINGLE SURFACE EVERYWHERE
ON THE SITE AND EVERY SPOT
FOURTH AVENUE THAT IS HOW MUCH
GEOTHERMAL IT TAKES FOR A
TRADITIONAL FOUR HUNDRED FOOT
WELL TO SERVICE A BUILDING THAT
SIZE IT IS NOT IF YOU WANT TO
GO A THOUSAND FEET DEEP AND A
LOT A LOT A LOT OF MONEY YOU
MIGHT BE WOULD DO IT LIKE WE WE
ARE STRUGGLING TO FIGURE THAT
OUT ON THAT SITE AS WELL.
DID YOU CONSIDER SOLAR AWNINGS
?
SO THE PROBLEM WITH SOLAR IS
THAT YOU DID IN HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS ARE NOT HIGH RISE BUT
MULTISTORY BUILDINGS YOU CAN'T
GET ENOUGH SURFACE OR A PV
PANELS TO OFFSET YOUR
ELECTRICAL NEED.
IT'S NOT GOING TO
COVER EVERYTHING AND I DON'T
THINK ANYTHING'S GOING TO
COVER EVERYTHING, YOU KNOW I
MEAN WHAT IS IT ONION FLATS
THING THAT WAS PUT OUT A FEW
MONTHS AGO THEY LITERALLY
SHEATHED IT RIGHT.
BUT THEN YOU START TALKING TO
HOMELAND AND THEY'LL TELL YOU
ABOUT THE PHOTON ANGLE
OF IMPACT ON THE PV AND IT GETS
WAY DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE REAL
QUICK TO PUT IN A VERTICAL
SOLAR PANEL DOESN'T REALLY MAKE
A LOT OF SENSE AN EFFICIENCY
STANDPOINT, RIGHT?
>> YOU JUST RUN ON A SURFACE
AREA AND WE ARE DOING SOLAR
READY PURELY FOR FINANCIAL
REASONS.
WE'RE GOING TO ADD SOLAR AFTER
IT'S BUILT SO THAT IT DOESN'T
BECOME PART OF OUR INITIAL
DEVELOPMENT COST.
>> THAT'S IT.
THAT'S THE ONLY REASON KOSHER
DISH.
THIS IS REALLY GREAT.
I JUST WANT TO ASK A QUESTION
ABOUT TRASH FAVORITE BUT I KNOW
MOMENT WE TALK ABOUT I IMAGINE
I ACTUALLY CAN JUST IMAGINE AND
IT JUST MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
YOU'RE GOING TO YOU HAVE A
RECYCLING COMPACTOR THAT'S A
MISTAKE.
>> I THOUGHT SO NOT SURE THE
MISCOMMUNICATE.
NO, THAT'S NOT WHAT I WAS GOING
TO SAY BECAUSE I WILL FREAK
OUT.
>> NO, NO THERE'S A TRASH
COMPACTOR JUST THE TRASH
CYCLING IS JUST LIKE YOU KNOW.
>> YEAH.
ANYBODY ELSE QUESTIONS COMMENTS
SO THEY JUST THANK YOU.
>> I JUST LIKE THAT I JUST
APPRECIATE ALL OF YOU SO MUCH
AND ALL THE COMMENTS THAT CAME
IN ALL THE WORK THAT'S PUT INTO
THIS AND I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH
DON'T HEAR IT PROBABLY SO I
JUST WANT TO JUST SEND MY
APPRECIATION FOR THIS PROJECT
AND EVERYTHING YOU DO IN THE
COMMUNITY.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
>> THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I WAS
GOING TO SAY.
I WANTED TO THANK YOU SO MUCH
FOR THIS PROJECT AVALON IN THE
HOUSING COMMISSION.
I'M HOPING THAT WE CAN LEARN
FROM THE PROCESS THAT YOU GUYS
TO DO SUCH GREAT PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT WITH A COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS THAT WE HAVE
COMING UP.
AND I ALSO JUST WANTED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE WE GOT A LOT
OF COMMENTS ABOUT THIS PROJECT
AND SUPPORT BUT ONE OF THEM
STRUCK ME IT CAME FROM A
RESIDENT OF I THINK ONE OF THE
HOUSING COMMISSION BUILDINGS
AND JUST HOW MUCH I THINK
AVALON WORKS WITH AND WOW, IT'S
LATE.
>> I HAVE NO WORDS HOW MUCH ALL
OF YOU HAVE REALLY IMPACTED HIS
LIFE BY HOUSING AND SUPPORTING
THE SERVICES AND IT WAS A
REALLY IMPACTFUL COMMENT AND
YOU GUYS DO AMAZING WORK.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR VOTE
A
VOTE ON THE ONE TWENTY ONE
KATHRYN MOTIONS AS PRESENTED.
LET'S START WITH COMMISSIONER
MILLS.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
GIVE RANDALL YES.
COMMISSIONER SOLVAY.
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS
ENTHUSIASTIC YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
YES
.
COMMISSIONER IS YES
COMMISSIONER.
>> YES AND COMMISSIONER WAS A
VERY ENTHUSIASTIC YES YES
BECAUSE THEY STILL JUST YOSSES
GET TWO VOTES FOR THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
MOTION CARRIES.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO OUR LAST
SECTION OF PUBLIC COMMENT.
THAT'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK TO THREE
MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON PEOPLE WHO
ARE PRESENT AND THEN MOVE ON TO
PROMOTE THE PHONE ACCESS IS
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
SIX.
WE'RE GOING TO CALL ON PEOPLE
HERE FIRST AND THEN REMOTELY
FOR EITHER METHOD PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS ANYBODY
PRESENT ONE MORE TIME ONE MORE
TIME.
I'LL TRY TO BE SUPER QUICK.
THANK YOU ALL.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I THINK I
APPRECIATE YOUR OPTIMISM THAT
WE WILL HAVE A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND B IMPLEMENTING
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THAT PLAN
WITHIN TWO OR THREE YEARS.
>> I THINK THAT'S PROBABLY IN
REALITY NOT GOING TO HAPPEN IN
KEEPING THAT IN MIND LIKE WE
HAVE URGENT PROBLEMS WE NEED TO
SOLVE.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO UNDERLINE
THROUGHOUT THE THEME OF THE
EVENING THAT THE URGENCY IS
REAL AND WE NEED TO KEEP IT UP
AND ALSO PLEASE DO BE LISTENING
TO THE REAL EXPERIENCES OF BOTH
PEOPLE LIKE JENNIFER HALL WHO
ARE TRYING TO ACTUALLY MAKE
THIS STUFF HAPPEN FOR REAL AND
ALSO DEVELOPERS WHO ARE RUNNING
TO THE WALL OF REALITY TRYING
TO MAKE STUFF HAPPEN LIKE THAT
BECAUSE YOU WE CAN WE CAN TRY
TO HOLD EVERYBODY TO THE
STANDARDS OF D ONE IN A D ONE
ISH PROJECT BUT WE'RE NOT
SEEING ANY D ONE PROJECT
PROPOSED BECAUSE IT STANDS TO
BE ONE APEROL APPEAR TO BE
UNREALISTICALLY ACHIEVABLE AND
SO DO WE WANT TO HAVE AND
REALISTICALLY ACHIEVABLE
STANDARDS THAT HAVE HIGH MINDED
GOALS THAT ACTUALLY DELIVER
NOTHING LIKE NO NEW HOUSING, NO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTIONS, NO ONGOING TAX
REVENUE INTO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING TRUST FUND TO HELP
SUBSIDIZE OTHER PEOPLE'S HOMES
OR IN OTHER PARTS OF THE CITY
AND INTO THE CLIMATE VILLAGE
FUNDS THAT HELP YOU KNOW, OTHER
AREAS OF THE CITY MAKE THEIR
HOMES MORE SUSTAINABLE AT THE
SAME TIME.
SO THOSE ARE ALL THE THINGS
WE'RE GIVING UP BY MAKING IT SO
HARD AND MAKING THE PERFECT THE
ENEMY OF THE GOOD AND BY NOT
MAKING ROOM FOR PEOPLE THE
PEOPLE WHO GET EXCLUDED ARE YOU
KNOW, AS WE KNOW THE PEOPLE GET
EXCLUDED.
>> SO THANK YOU ALL AGAIN.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT?
MY NAME IS ANGELA DAVIS ONE
EIGHTEEN WAS KINGSLEY AND IT'S
ABSOLUTELY INCREDIBLE THAT THIS
COMMENTER HERE SAID JUST ABOUT
EVERYTHING THAT I HAD IN MIND
TO SAY WHICH IS PERFECT THAT
WE'RE ALL ON THE SAME PAGE AND
I DON'T REALLY LIKE TO BEAT THE
DEAD HORSE BECAUSE WE ALL KNOW
WHAT IS AT STAKE.
YES, WE HAVE A HOUSING CRISIS
FOR HOUSING IS A MUST I I LIKE
TO LOOK AT OUTSIDE THE BOX AND
IT'S IT WOULD BE REALLY AWESOME
IF THE THE POWERS TO BE LIKE
YOURSELF, THE CITY COUNCIL AND
WHOEVER INVOLVED THAT WOULD PUT
PLANS IN MOTION, THAT WOULD
COME UP WITH IDEAS OF GIVING
TAX INCENTIVES AND TAKE IT TO
LIKE HOMEOWNERS WHO WANT TO
PARTAKE IN A IN A PROGRAM THAT
WOULD ALLOW THEM TO TURN THEIR
HOMES OVER FOR CERTAIN TAX
BREAK FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE
AFFORDABLE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
OUTSIDE OF JUST BUILDING A
STRUCTURE WHICH WOULD BE GREAT
TOO BECAUSE NOW YOU'RE
SATISFYING THE NEEDS OF MULTI
COUPLES AND FAMILIES AND
INDIVIDUALS AS OPPOSED TO JUST
ONE PARTICULAR FAMILY.
BUT HOWEVER EVERYONE NEEDS THE
ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND I WILL NOT SAY IN EVERY
INCOME BRACKET BECAUSE THE ONES
THAT WE ARE SPEAKING OF ARE
THOSE THAT ARE BELOW ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS AND A
LOT OF THE RESIDENTS IN ANN
ARBOR, SOME BORN AND RAISED
HERE IN ANN ARBOR ARE SERVICE
WORKERS IN MANY DIFFERENT
CAPACITIES THAT DO NOT MAKE ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS AND
CANNOT LIVE HERE.
YOU KNOW, AND I MAY LOOK LIKE
THAT I MAKE ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND I TRY TO DO THAT EVERY
DAY BUT I'M IN THAT HOUSING
CATEGORY.
THANKFULLY I DO HAVE A PLACE TO
LIVE.
SO LOOKING OUTSIDE THE BOX TO
OTHER ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS YOU
KNOW, RENT CONTROL I USED LIVE
OUT OF STATE IN AN AREA THAT
HAD RENT CONTROL.
IS THAT SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
EVEN ADDRESS?
I DON'T KNOW WHAT SORT
OF CHANNELS THAT WOULD HAVE TO
GO THROUGH IF THAT WOULD EVEN
PASS.
BUT THESE ARE OTHER THINGS THAT
COULD BE ADDRESSED AND ANALYZED
TO SEE IF IT ACTUALLY WORK FOR
US.
POST PANDEMIC'S THREW
EVERYTHING OUT OF THE WATER SO
NOW WE'RE SCRAMBLING TO MAKE
THINGS HAPPEN FOR THE GOOD
OF ALL.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK WE HAVE ANYBODY IN
LINE VIRTUALLY ONE HAND IS
RAISED ALEX LOWE ALEX OH YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE ONCE
AGAIN CALLING FROM 33 BLOOMWOOD
AVENUE FROM THE SITE OF THE
POST ONLY MILITARY SETTLEMENT
NOW KNOWN AS THE MITCHELL
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE SAW SOME WONDERFUL ACTION
TODAY AND I WANT TO SEE MORE
AND I WANT TO SEE IT HAPPEN
FIRST.
LET'S GET SOME MORE QUICK ONE.
LET'S GET A COMPREHENSIVE THAT
ELIMINATES THE TEQUILA'S
RESTRICTIONS.
>> WE HAVE.
>> BUT FOR ZONING THE HEIGHT
RESTRICTIONS THERE ARE
REQUIREMENTS.
LET'S LET OUR CITY GROW AS A
CITY AND NOT HAMPER IT AND I
HAVE CRACKED DOWN AND THAT'S A
LET'S DO IT CAREFULLY AND
METHODICALLY BUT QUICKLY BEFORE
THAT AS THIS CRISIS TURNS INTO
AN ABSOLUTE CATASTROPHE.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE ON TO ITEM NUMBER TEN
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
DON'T SEE ANY SO WE WILL MOVE
ON TO ADJOURNMENT MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SILVER, SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER ABRAMS ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR I WE ARE
ADJOURNED